MANIFESTO 2024 1MANIFESTO 2024 2ALL INDIA TRINAMOOL CONGRESS
MANIFESTO 2024
MANIFESTO 2024 3Appeal
Before 2011, Bengal was in a state of decline and distress. With your ardent
support, I vowed to lead Bengal on to the path of progress, restoring it to its
past glory. I have dedicated my life to fulfilling this duty, and ensuring that
every resident of the state leads an enriching life with a safe and secure future.
Today, Bengal’s fast-growing economy and its formidable schemes have
propelled the state to great heights. The development strides we have made
over the past decade have garnered both national and international acclaim.
Bengal has thrived despite being subjected to coercion, obstruction and
deliberate financial blockade by vindictive forces. I have ensured that each
and every resident of Bengal receives their rightful claim.
While undertaking this endeavour, the current Union Government since 2014
has been maliciously conspiring against Bengal through deceptive promises,
deliberate deprivation and a disrespectful attitude displayed towards Bengal’s
cultural heritage. They have extracted ₹6.65 lakh crore in taxes from Bengal in
the last 5 years, yet as true jomidars have withheld ₹1.6 lakh crore for crucial
developmental schemes. They have stooped so viciously low as to deny people
of the state even basic necessities of Roti, Kapda, Makan. Whenever elected
representatives, bureaucrats or deprived citizens from Bengal have tried to
reason with these outsiders, they were insulted, heckled or detained.
The magnitude of their tyranny can be seen across the country. In the last
10 years, they have been relentlessly undermining the tenets of federalism,
pluralism, liberty and democracy, enshrined in the Constitution. Misusing
Union agencies, they have tried to constantly suppress opposition voices
and target any one who questions their anti-people policies. Youth, women,
farmers — each and every section of the society has suffered due to their
misgovernance. While on the other hand, India’s global position in key indices
have drastically deteriorated.
At this crucial juncture, as we stand on the threshold of change, I solemnly
resolve to ensure welfare continues to reach all. I recommit myself to stopping
the malicious forces working against the interests of Bengal and the nation.
Ours is a vision-cum-mission to secure the rights of the people of Bengal,
and lead the nation towards transformative change. We have conducted
MANIFESTO 2024 4extensive consultations with people across the nation. Our resolutions are
truly representative of people’s aspirations. We re-dedicate ourselves to work
for Maa, Mati, Manush.
The power to defeat the divisive and destructive forces that threaten our beloved
nation and the great state of Bengal, lies with the people. If we (INDIA) are voted
to power at the Centre, we will fulfil each shopoth made to you. We will continue
to uphold India’s rich diversity by ensuring all religious groups (Hindus, Muslims,
Sikhs, Christians, Jains, Parsis, Buddhists, etc.), Scheduled Castes (Rajbanshi,
Namashudra, Bagdi, etc.), Scheduled Tribes (Santhal, Oraon, Bhutia, etc.), Other
Backward Classes, General category, marginalised and linguistic communities
coexist harmoniously across the nation. I, Mamata Banerjee, urge each one of you
to cast your vote for the joraphool symbol, the emblem that represents our spirit
and resilience. Let us unitedly stand together against ‘the outsiders’ threatening
our peace and harmony. Together, we will overcome every challenge. Together,
we will fulfil each resolve we have made. This is what we are committed to do
when TMC, as part of INDIA, forms the Union Government.
Joy Hind! Joy Bangla!
Mamata Banerjee
MANIFESTO 2024 5DIDIR SHOPOTH
BORDHITO AAY,
1
SHROMIKDER SAHAY
100 days of guaranteed work will be ensured to all job card holders
and all workers will receive an increased minimum wage of ₹400 per
day, nationally
DESH JURE BARI,
2 HOBE SOBARIE
Dignified housing will be guaranteed for all poor families in the
country, providing safe and secure homes to everyone
JWALANIR JWALA KOMBE,
3
DESHER JWALA GHUCHBE
All BPL families will be provided 10 LPG cylinders, free-of-cost, every
year to enable them adequate access to clean cooking fuel, thereby
promoting environmentally-friendly practices
ONEK HOYECHE SASHON,
4
EBAR DUARE RATION
5 KG of free ration (rice, wheat, grains) will be provided to every ration
card holder, every month
Ration will be delivered free-of-cost to the doorstep of every beneficiary
AMADER ONGIKAR,
5
NIRAPOTTA BARBE SOBAR
The number of higher education scholarships for OBCs, SC and STs will
be increased to uplift youth from marginalised communities
The existing Old Age Pension for the elderly people above 60 years will
be hiked to ₹1,000 per month (₹12,000 annually)
BORDHITO AAY NISCHIT EBAR,
6
PHUTBE HASHI ONNODATAR
As per the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, MSP
will be legally guaranteed to India’s farmers, set at least 50% higher
than the average cost of production of all crops
MANIFESTO 2024 6SWAOLPOMULYE PETROPONYO,
7
BHAROTBORSHE SOKOLE DHONYO
Prices of petrol, diesel, and LPG cylinders will be capped at affordable
levels
A ‘Price Stabilization Fund’ will be created to handle price fluctuations
NISHCHINTA BHOBISHYOT ORJON,
8
JUBOSHOKTIR GORJON
All graduates and diploma holders upto the age of 25 will be provided
1-year apprenticeships to enhance their skills & employability.
A monthly stipend will be provided to help apprentices support
themselves economically
Student Credit Cards of up to ₹10 Lakh will be provided to students
pursuing higher education
SWACCHO AYIN,
9 SWADHIN BHARAT
The botched up Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) will be abolished
and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) will be discontinued
Uniform Civil Code (UCC) will not be implemented in the country
EGIYE BANGLA,
10
EGOBE BHARAT
Girls aged 13-18 will be provided an annual grant of ₹1,000 and a one-
time grant of ₹25,000 for education, in line with Bengal’s Kanyashree
scheme
All women will be provided a monthly financial assistance, in line with
Bengal’s Lakshmir Bhandar scheme
Ayushman Bharat health insurance programme will be replaced by a
stronger health insurance programme with an increased cover of ₹10
Lakh, in line with Bengal’s Swasthya Sathi scheme
MANIFESTO 2024 7MANIFESTO 2024 8Table of Contents
GOVERNANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10-17
ECONOMY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18-23
INDUSTRY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24-29
AGRICULTURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30-35
EDUCATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36-41
HEALTHCARE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42-47
INFRASTRUCTURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48-53
NATIONAL SECURITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54-57
WOMEN EMPOWERMENT . . . . . . . . . . . .58-63
YOUTH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64-69
SC, ST and MINORITY WELFARE . . . . . . .70-75
SOCIAL SECURITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76-79
CULTURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80-85
TOURISM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86-91
ENVIRONMENT and BIODIVERSITY . . . .92-97
MANIFESTO 2024 9MANIFESTO 2024 1001
Nischit sushason,
Banglar unnoyon
Key Goals
Bengal will receive an accountable,
people-centric Government that delivers
transformative governance
The federal rights of all Indian states will
be firmly preserved
MANIFESTO 2024 11
ECNANREVOGWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: India’s democracy and
Indians’ civil liberties have been under a relentless siege since the
BJP took office
The BJP-led Union Government has puppeteered the Governor of Bengal to act
against the state’s interests, disrupting the state’s functioning to deny the benefits
of good governance to the people of Bengal
The Bangla Birodhi BJP Government has hindered the day-to-day functioning of the
Bengal Government by deploying 334 Union teams and NLMs in the last 3 years
The BJP-led Union Government has unilaterally deactivated the Aadhaar cards of
the people from vulnerable communities in Bengal, cutting them off from welfare
The anti-federal BJP-led Union Government has brazenly impeded the functioning
of state Governments in our country, repeatedly using Governors to obstruct state
decision-making across non-BJP-ruled states
The BJP-led Union Government has weaponised agencies such as NIA, ED, Income
Tax and CBI to systematically crush democratic opposition in the country, with
approximately 95% of ED’s cases since 2014 targeting opposition leaders
The power-hungry BJP has deployed every dirty political trick to topple 9 democratically
elected Governments in 9 years (Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Goa,
Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra (2x), Uttarakhand, Puducherry)
The height of BJP’s hypocrisy is evident in its ‘washing machine politics’ — for years,
it has vehemently charged opposition leaders for corruption, only to later induct them
into its fold, dropping all charges against them upon their joining
The unprecedented arrests of Chief Ministers of Delhi and Jharkhand highlight
the extent to which the BJP-led Union Government is willing to disrupt the functioning
of rival state Governments and dishonour the mandate of their people
With over 200 killings, 70,000 displacements, and thousands of homes wrecked,
Manipur has been burning for a year under the BJP-led Union Government’s disastrous
watch
The BJP-led Union Government has ridden roughshod over parliamentary protocols.
It ruthlessly suspended 146 MPs, has struck nearly 300 questions off the record,
passed crucial bills via ordinance or without debate, and only 1 out of 10 bills passed
by Parliament were sent for legislative scrutiny
The BJP-led Union Government has obliterated citizens’ digital liberties. It exposed
the sensitive personal data of 81 Crore Indians during the Aadhaar breach 2023,
used Pegasus to spy on opposition leaders, activists, etc., and has enacted dozens of
draconian internet shutdowns
India has ranked 161/180 countries in the World Press Freedom Index 2023, exposing the
extent to which India’s media has been throttled by the BJP-led Union Government
MANIFESTO 2024 12What the -Mati-Manush Government did: Transformed
lives through direct governance initiatives
90% of Bengal’s citizens have received direct benefits of various services
and welfare programs of the TMC Government
Duare Sarkar, accorded the platinum award from the Hon’ble President of
India, has delivered 8.7 Crore public services directly to citizens’ doorsteps,
facilitated via 6.6 Lakh administrative camps
Bangla Sahayata Kendras have delivered 12 Crore online services to 6.5
Crore citizens, showcasing a commitment to using e-governance as an
instrument to serve people from the grassroots
Sorasori Mukhyomantri has received 3.43 Lakh citizen suggestions &
grievances and provided 60,000 services, steadfastly resolving gaps in
service delivery
Under Paray Samadhan, 47,130 local-level administrative and infrastructural
issues and service gaps have been resolved through small interventions and
community participation
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Ensure a
people-centric Government that delivers transformative
governance to all
For Bengal
Bengal will continue to reap the benefits of good governance. TMC will ensure
Bengal’s rise to even greater heights.
TMC’s elected Parliamentarians will work together to serve people 365 days a year.
We will ensure that development, justice, and prosperity reach every household in a
mission-mode manner.
West Bengal will be officially renamed ‘Bangla’. In line with the wishes of our State
and the advantage of administrative convenience, we will rename our State from
‘West Bengal’ to ‘Bangla’.
A proposal to do so has already been approved by the State Legislature, and was sent
to the Union Government, before its authoritarian rejection in 2018. We will redouble
our efforts on this front and engage constructively with the Hon’ble President of India
and the Ministry of Home Affairs so that a bill for renaming our State is definitively
introduced in Parliament and thereafter brought into force.
MANIFESTO 2024 13
ECNANREVOGBengal’s cutting-edge E-governance efforts will be further strengthened. TMC
will further enhance the state’s e-governance initiatives, pioneering greater digital
citizen participation across the length and breadth of governance services.
An already extensive array of dashboards, real-time information management systems,
and online feedback mechanisms ensures all relevant information related to the
Government’s progress across its various programs, schemes, and implementations
is accessible to citizens 24x7. We will extend this cutting-edge service to more people
in the state.
Identification and resolution of major local administrative and infrastructural
needs at the block level will be continued more strenuously. TMC will enhance
the degree of governance responsiveness to local-level citizen concerns.
We will intensify our already existing intiatives to determine locally relevant
infrastructural needs and plug administrative gaps will be conducted, featuring
extensive participation of elected representatives from all levels, from MP down to
the Panchayat level. More efforts will be undertaken to promote greater awareness of
new programmes and schemes being progressively launched in the state every year.
Through direct consultations with citizens, these issues will be collated and resolved
according to expedited timelines through fast-tracked sanctioning of budgets.
The already highly successful programmes, Duare Sarkar and Paray Samadhan,
will continue to serve people. TMC will ensure continuous delivery of good
governance to the doorsteps of Bengal’s households.
Owing to the phenomenal success of Duare Sarkar and Paray Samadhan, these
initiatives shall be conducted regularly. We will ensure that the benefits and services of
all Government schemes and projects reach the beneficiaries at their doorstep.
For India
The federal rights of all states will be firmly preserved. TMC will bring a
Constitutional Amendment to Article 155. This will ensure that Governors are
appointed in consultation with state legislatures.
We will reform the GST system entirely into a more equitable instrument of revenue
distribution.
We will reform the National Education Policy to better incorporate the distinct
educational needs of each state.
We will further amend the Union Government’s asymmetric Fiscal Responsibility and
Budget Management restrictions on states.
We will not accept the ‘One Nation One Election’ proposal.
Furthermore, to ensure the distinct developmental and planning needs of all states
are in sync with those of the Union Government, we will set up a forum for meaningful
Centre-State dialogue on policy on the lines of the Planning Commission.
The next round of India’s decadal population census will be conducted. TMC will ensure
the conduct of the country’s population census, which has not happened since 2011.
MANIFESTO 2024 14We will plan and conduct the next round of India’s demographic census expediently.
Suitable criteria will be determined as per the Ministry of Statistics and Programme
Implementation for a scientific overhaul of the methodologies used in past censuses
(base year, inflation, household consumption, etc.) to enable superior data quality in
all future enumerations of the decadal exercise.
Furthermore, we will review and release the report on ‘Vital Statistics of India Based
On The Civil Registration System’ of the previous years so that the information within
can be utilised in the interim to plan, monitor, and assess various programs related to
primary healthcare, family planning, maternal and child health, and education.
The practice of toppling Governments will be assertively disabled.TMC will
strengthen constitutional protections to ensure democratically elected Governments
are not changed by devious means.
We will amend the 10th Schedule of the Constitution to make the provisions of the
Anti-Defection Law more explicit and immediate in their application.
The impartiality of India’s judicial system will be restored. TMC will ensure India’s
judiciary remains free of political pressures or inducements and that there is instead
a neutral, impartial, transparent Commission. It will oversee appointments of SC and
HC judges on basis of merits and eligibility rather than reciprocity in tune with the
Supreme Court Judgment and that its evaluation criteria and deliberations are made
public.
To reduce conflicts of interest, we will also institute a mandatory 3-year ‘cooling-
off period’ before retired judges can accept Government appointments or political
positions.
Political interference in key Government institutions will be abolished. TMC will
restore the autonomy of agencies such as CBI, ED, NIA and Income Tax, as well as
bodies such as Reserve Bank of India (RBI), University Grants Commission (UGC),
National Medical Commission (NMC), Wrestling Federation of India (WFI), etc., by
amending their respective formative Acts to regulate the Union Government’s role in
their operational decisions.
The administrations of these institutions will also be replaced with new appointments
based on a transparent selection process driven by independent panels and strict
eligibility protocols prioritising institutional integrity.
A new Digital Liberties Bill will be introduced in Parliament. TMC will ensure
India’s citizens are safeguarded from personal data breaches, undue surveillance, and
denial of their digital rights.
We will introduce a new Digital Liberties Bill in Parliament to safeguard the digital
rights of citizens through:
» New regulations to bolster the security provisions for the collection, storage, and
fair use of the personal data of citizens by Government agencies, businesses, and
other entities
» New regulations to outlaw the misuse of surveillance technologies to spy on
private citizens, media, or politicians
» A well-defined set of regulations and protocols to prevent unilateral imposition
of internet shutdowns
MANIFESTO 2024 15
ECNANREVOGPeace will be restored in the strife-torn state of Manipur. TMC will ensure the
necessary actions are undertaken to end violence in Manipur.
We will take measures to restore peace and normalcy in Manipur, such as:
» Establishment of a Peace and Reconciliation Commission, comprising political
leaders and bureaucrats to initiate dialogue with affected groups and address
their grievances
» Formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate and identify the
perpetrators of heinous crimes for expedited trials in designated fast-track courts
» Strategic enhancement of security in areas highly vulnerable to violence, along
with stringent actions to recover arms and weapons from individuals who possess
them illegally
» Development of a comprehensive action plan to construct new houses for
individuals who have lost their homes and compensate as well as subsequently
rehabilitate them
A National Integration Council (NIC) of Union Government and States will be
constituted. TMC will take steps to cooperatively strengthen India’s communal
harmony and manage threats resulting from disharmony.
We will set up a National Integration Council to effectively manage communal
disturbances, as per the recommendation of the Punchhi Commission:
» States will be consulted through the council before bills are introduced on matters
that fall in the concurrent list
» In case of any serious communal incidents anywhere in the country, a 5-member
delegation nominated by the council will visit the affected area within 5 days
Doorstep delivery of services will be introduced all over India. TMC will ensure
essential schemes and public services are brought within easy reach of all citizens.
Learning from the Bengal model, where the award-winning Duare Sarkar programme
has delivered 8.7 Crore public services directly to citizens’ doorsteps via 6.6 Lakh
administrative camps since 2020, we will set out to implement this initiative all across
the country.
Through camps set up at the Gram Panchayat or Ward level at periodic intervals twice
or thrice a year, citizens will be able to access essential services such as issuing or
updation of certificates, registering for or collecting entitlements of welfare schemes,
etc. in an expedited manner with minimal wait times or cumbersome documentation
requirements.
Digital Sahayata Kendras will be set up all over India. TMC will ensure online public
services are also within easy reach of all citizens.
Learning once again from the Bengal model, where Bangla Sahayata Kendras (BSK)
have successfully delivered over 12 Crore online services to more than 6.5 Crores
citizens free-of-cost, we will establish similar e-service Kendras all over the country in
order to place e-governance closer in reach of every common citizen.
Through these, all citizens will be assisted in availing the benefits of their services
from the Government in a free, fast, and secure manner.
MANIFESTO 2024 16The practice of state-funded elections will be introduced. As TMC has
consistently advocated, we will bring electoral reforms to eradicate corruption and
improve transparency by introducing state-funded elections in India.
We will adopt the best practices from the countries where Government-funded
elections have been successfully implemented. This initiative will ensure a level playing
field for all political entities, diminishing the influence of black money and corporate
funding, thereby making elections more transparent and equitable.
MANIFESTO 2024 17
ECNANREVOGMANIFESTO 2024 1802
Arthik shreebridhhi,
Samajik samridhhi
Key Goal
Bengal’s economy will maintain a strong
double-digit growth rate through the next
5 years
All BPL families will be provided 10
LPG cylinders, free-of-cost, every year
to enable them adequate access to
clean cooking fuel, thereby promoting
environmental-friendly practices
A comprehensive reform of the GST
system will be undertaken
MANIFESTO 2024 19
YMONOCEWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: India’s once-
flourishing economy has been ruined
The BJP-led Union Government has deprived Bengal’s people of their rightful dues by
brazenly withholding funds amounting to approximately ₹1.6 Lakh Crore, despite
collecting over ₹6.65 Lakh Crore as taxes in the last 5 years from the state
Skyrocketing inflation has put the people in acute financial distress, with household
savings across the country plummeting to a five-decade low in 2023
BJP garnered votes by promising ‘Acche Din’, but under their ‘Vish Kaal’, an unchecked
rise in the prices of essential foods like atta (31%), arhar (tur) dal (40%) and milk
(50%) has devastated the middle and poor classes
India has witnessed its highest-ever fuel and LPG prices under the BJP-led Union
Government
At the global level, the Indian rupee is at an all-time low under the BJP-led Union
Government
The BJP-led Union Government’s GST system remains an unmitigated disaster — it
has undermined the fiscal autonomy of states, delayed payments of their rightful
dues, unleashed massive fraud and worsened discrimination in revenue distribution
The BJP-led Union Government has amassed a shocking ₹100 Lakh Crore of debt —
two times more than the sum total of 14 previous Governments
BJP-led Union Government recklessly flouts its own Fiscal Responsibility and Budget
Management (FRBM) borrowing limits while hypocritically restricting states’ ability
to borrow up to even their basic limits
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: Bengal’s
once-floundering economy has been revived and
elevated to new heights by the TMC
Bengal is set to be India’s 4th largest economy (net value added) — our
GDP has grown from ₹5.2 Lakh Crore in 2011-12 to ₹18.8 Lakh Crore in
2024-25 — (2X higher than India’s growth)
Our residents continue to prosper — the average per-person income has
nearly tripled from ₹51,543 in 2011-12 to ₹1,41,373 in 2022-23
In the last decade, Bengal has more than doubled its exports, from
₹55,589 Crore in 2010-2011 to ₹1.1 Lakh Crore in 2021-22
Bengal’s budget has increased over fourfold in the last 13 years, growing
from ₹84,804 Crore in 2011-12 to ₹3.66 Lakh Crore in 2024-25 (50%) higher
than the increase in Union budget)
MANIFESTO 2024 20Own Tax Revenue collection of Bengal has surged fourfold, skyrocketing from
₹21,128 Crore in 2010-11 to ₹83,608 Crore in 2022-23
Bengal’s revenue deficit (as a % of GSDP) has decreased from 3.75% in 2010-
11 to 1.78% in 2022-23
Bengal’s capital expenditure has increased over eightfold, from a mere
₹2,633 Crore in 2010-11 to ₹22,753 Crore in 2022-23
What the TMC pledges to do: Shield the people from the whiplash
of price rise, restore States’ financial independence
For Bengal
Bengal’s economy will maintain a double-digit growth rate through the next 5
years. TMC will ensure Bengal’s growth continues to accelerate.
Bengal’s GSDP stood at ₹17.2 Lakh Crore in 2023-24, growing at 11.04% (First Advanced
Estimates), and is set to become ₹18.8 Lakh Crore in 2024-25, growing further at 10.5%.
Having successfully surpassed our 2021 commitment to become a ‘Top 5’ economy in
India, we will ensure Bengal maintains this double-digit growth rate.
By enabling investment and infrastructure across key sectors, thereby bolstering
productivity and employment generation in the state, Bengal’s economy will continue
to grow strongly and flourish.
Bengal’s exports will be doubled over the next decade. TMC will strive to make
Bengal the ‘global trading hub of India’.
In the last decade, Bengal has more than doubled its exports, from ₹55,589 Crore in
2010-11 to ₹1.1 Lakh Crore in 2021-22. Through the operationalization of the West
Bengal Export Promotion Policy and the West Bengal Logistics Sector Development
Policy, we will ensure that we effectively double the state’s share in India’s total annual
exports by 2030.
The poverty level in Bengal will be reduced to less than 1%. TMC will work tirelessly
to eliminate poverty in Bengal.
We will bring down the poverty headcount ratio from 8.6% to less than 1% by effectively
implementing welfare schemes and expanding social security coverage in the next 10
years through:
» By fast tracking and extending welfare programmes, wherein everyone eligible for
Government assistance can access it without discrimination or exclusion through
programmes like Duare Sarkar
» Basic amenities; All households will be provided amenities such as a house,
electricity, LPG, tap water, etc.
MANIFESTO 2024 21
YMONOCEEase of Doing Business (EODB) in Bengal will be continuously improved. In line
with our ongoing commitment to make Bengal an apex destination for business and
industry, we will continue to undertake comprehensive EODB reforms, with the aim of
making our state a ‘top 5’ business destination in India over the next 5 years.
The Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub will be further expanded. TMC will accelerate
its efforts to make Bengal a top destination for skilled jobs in the tech industry.
Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub has been opertionalised. To further expand it, we will fast-
track all statutory approvals which will attract more investments leading to the creation
of 50,000 direct skilled jobs and thousands of jobs indirectly.
For India
Prices of petrol, diesel, and LPG cylinders will be capped at affordable levels.
TMC will ensure the common people of India are able to afford fuel and cooking gas
and remain protected from sharp price hikes.
» A price ceiling on the rates of petrol, diesel, and LPG cylinders will be implemented
» A price stabilisation fund will be created to balance out potential spikes in the
costs of these commodities resulting from global crude supply shifts
» A strategic national petroleum reserve will also be created to ensure a 30-day
buffer stock of petrol and diesel to mitigate shortages
10 LPG cylinders will be provided to BPL families free-of-cost every year. TMC
will ensure that every household in India receives affordable and clean cooking fuel,
promopting environment-friendly practices.
We will introduce a new scheme to provide 10 LPG cylinders free of cost to all eligible
BPL families every year free-of-cost, in order to reduce the burden of rising fuel prices
on the poor. The increase in adoption of LPG as cooking fuel will also have a positive
impact on the environment, by producing significantly lower emissions compared to
traditional fuels like coal or gasoline.
A comprehensive reform of the GST system will be undertaken. The current GST
regime, which has eroded the fiscal autonomy of our states and led to heavy losses,
will be reformed into a more equitable instrument of revenue distribution.
» To eliminate existing delays in release of revenues, GST collection will be fully
managed by state Governments, who will be empowered to collect their due
shares and transfer surpluses to the Union Government
» To set appropriate criteria for the above, the GST Council will be transformed
into a more consensus-based body and directed to determine a proportional
distribution between state and Union Government
» Compliance mechanisms will be strengthened to curb GST evasion and fraudulent
practices
» GST exemption will be provided for essential foods such as pulses, rice, wheat,
cooking oil, etc.
» GST on critical agri-inputs (fertilisers, pesticides) will be reduced
MANIFESTO 2024 22The right of states to determine their financial borrowing capacities will be
restored. TMC will put an end to the Union Government’s double standards on
borrowing by eliminating the asymmetric limits on states’ borrowing capacities.
We will repeal the Union Government’s decision to place the off-budget borrowings
of state public sector corporations and special purpose vehicles under the purview of
the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act.
We will also establish a high-powered Inter-Governmental FRBM Council to achieve
more cooperative debt management between the Union Government and the states.
A broad review of existing taxation policies and norms will be undertaken. TMC
will revisit the existing taxation system in India to make it less burdensome and more
equitable to the people.
We will introduce tax reforms to simplify the procedures for filing income tax and
make it more citizen-friendly. Taxation will be made adaptive to the prevailing levels of
inflation and will also incentivise private savings and investment. We will also review
the existing range of cesses that deny states their rightful shares of tax revenues.
MANIFESTO 2024 23
YMONOCEMANIFESTO 2024 2403
Shilpayoner jowar,
Unnoyon sobar
Key Goal
Guaranteed employment will be provided
to Bengal’s rural workforce through
Karmasree
100 days of guaranteed work will be
ensured to all job card holders and
all workers will receive an increased
minimum wage of ₹400 per day, nationally
MANIFESTO 2024 25
RUOBAL
DNA
YRTSUDNIWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: The BJP Government
has devastated the lives of the working class to benefit its cronies
Under the tyranny of the BJP, the rich have become richer while the poor have suffered
— India’s wealth inequality rose to a six-decade high, with 1% of the wealthiest
owning 40.1% — more unequal than the times of the Colonial era
‘Ameero Ka Vikas, Gareebo Ka Vinash’ model of industrialisation have benefited a
select group of large corporations, prioritizing the 1% at the expense of the entire
working class — half of the ₹14.6 Lakh Crore in loan write-offs since 2014 have
benefitted selected groups
The BJP-led Union Government’s atrocious mismanagement of over 20 PSUs, including
profitable ones such as LIC, has led to the privatisation of these enterprises, causing
the loss of long-term revenue sources and over ₹1.5 Lakh jobs
The BJP-led Union Government’s ‘Make in India’ programme stands as a monumental
failure, as evidenced by the abysmal manufacturing growth rate averaging a mere
5.9% since 2014, significantly lower than the lofty promise made by the BJP
The BJP-led Union Government has left countless struggling MSMEs in distress by
failing to provide them loans, despite guaranteeing to offer ₹3 Lakh Crore in collateral-
free automatic loans to MSMEs under the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ scheme
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: Under
TMC, Bengal’s industries, across all sectors, have
flourished
Bengal has supercharged its MSME sector, employing more than 1.3 Crore
people. 57 Lakh new MSMEs have been added since 2011, securing ₹6
Lakh Crore in bank credit from 2011 to 2023
Bengal’s Index of Industrial Production (manufacturing) growth stood
at 7.8%, exceeding the national growth rate of 5% in 2022-23
The number of factories in Bengal has increased 17% from 8,232 in 2010
to 9,650 in 2021
Bengal’s IT sector has been transformed with the operationalise of 26 IT
Parks throughout the state
Wages for tea garden workers have increased by 3 times, from ₹67 per day
in 2011 to ₹250 per day currently. Additionally, homestead pattas have
been granted to around 23,000 tea garden workers
Bengal’s handloom industry employs the 2nd highest number of workers
in India at 5.4 Lakh (17.3% of the total)
MANIFESTO 2024 26What the TMC pledges to do: Build an inclusive industry sector
that supports local businesses and delivers growth with jobs
For Bengal
Guaranteed employment will be provided to Bengal’s rural workforce. TMC will
not allow the Union Government to take away our people’s right to work by withholding
MGNREGA funds.
Through the Karmasree Scheme, we will provide at least 50 days of work to each job
card holder.
In line with this commitment, we have already released wages for over 50 Lakh workers
who have not been paid due to the Union Government’s denial of funding.
Ensuring Bengal’s manufacturing sector remain strong and future-ready. We
will upgrade our existing policy for emerging industries (IT, Textiles, Agro based, Food
Processing and Aquaculture, etc.) and thrust industries (Chemicals, Petrochemicals,
Iron and Steel, etc.), with focus on the following:
» Enhancing infrastructure to facilitate manufacturing and fabrication within Bengal
(plug-and-play factories and workspaces, power grids, internet and telecoms,
warehousing, etc.)
» Developing a pipeline of high-quality homegrown talent as a workforce in these
industries through industry-relevant skill training
The tea and jute industries in Bengal will be further stimulated. TMC will
strengthen the economic prospects of our state’s critical tea and jute industries.
» A panel will be formed to review wages and working conditions and engage with
unions
» To enhance yield and productivity, modern machinery and equipment will be
provided (harvesters and rolling/drying equipment for tea factories, machinery
for carding, spinning, and weaving for jute mills)
An additional 10 Lakh MSMEs will be added every year to increase the total
number of functional MSME units to 1.5 Crore. TMC will continue to create jobs in
Bengal by fostering entrepreneurship.
We will accelerate our efforts and add 10 Lakh additional MSMEs every year by
facilitating easy access to finance and technology, providing greater market access
nationally as well as internationally, creating business linkages between MSMEs and
big industries, and developing supporting infrastructure such as local logistics.
The additional MSMEs will, as they have before, drive robust economic growth and
create more jobs in the state.
Crop-specific food parks will be established in each district of Bengal. TMC will
support our Krishak Bandhus by taking more measures to bolster local productivity.
In line with the distinct cropping needs of each district, food parks will help farmers
MANIFESTO 2024 27
RUOBAL
DNA
YRTSUDNIaccess better quality inputs, fairer prices, and improved food processing infrastructure.
All parks will be equipped with robust infrastructure, including processing centres for
food processing units, collection centres to facilitate processing (weighing, sorting,
grading of produce), and state-of-the-art cold chain infra to transfer and store harvest
from farms to distant locations.
Artisanal communities in Bengal will be provided with working capital assistance.
We will aid 2 Lakh artisans in earning a dignified livelihood and contributing to the
state and national economy.
A one-time grant of up to ₹15,000 will be provided for buying professional tools or
construction/repair of work sheds. More artisans will be brought under this scheme
over time.
For India
A new National Policy for MSMEs will be created, with an emphasis on widespread
access to credit and inputs. MSMEs have been the backbone of our state’s industry,
and TMC will ensure they are duly supported to turbocharge the entire nation’s
industrial push.
» Learning from the Bengal model, where linking cooperative banking to MSME
lending greatly enhanced credit access, the new National Policy will integrate
conventional sources (banks, Non-Banking Financial Companies, Microfinance
Institutions, etc.) as well as non-conventional sources (Trade Receivables Electronic
Discounting System, Private Equity/Venture Capital/Angel Funding, etc.) into a
single system to supply credit to MSMEs at low interest
» In addition, an integrated platform for raw material suppliers will also be created
for accessing to materials at affordable prices, with linkages to e-Mandis,
Agricultural Produce Market Committees, etc.
District-wise ‘Industrial Excellence Blueprints’ will be created to bolster local
industrial economies. To harness the full economic potential of each district, TMC
will encourage the creation of locally-aware industrial action plans that go beyond
sterile policies like ‘one district, one product’.
The Union Government will work with respective State Governments to determine
prominent local industrial opportunities, understand gaps and needs, and develop
blueprints to set up customised mini-clusters, smart infra, logistics, and market-
access solutions to enable local industrial growth, generate jobs, and achieve balanced
regional industrial development.
100 days of guaranteed work will be ensured to all job card holders and all
workers will receive an increased minimum wage of ₹400 per day, nationally.
TMC will ensure a dignified livelihood for the crores of labourers who rely on MGNREGA
with guaranteed 100 days of work and enhanced daily wages.
To ensure workers’ wages are scaled to meet their contemporary economic needs,
daily wage under its remit will be increased to ₹400 per day, coordinating with states
MANIFESTO 2024 28all across the country to ensure its stout implementation.
A Job-Based Incentive scheme will be introduced. TMC will take steps to create
“jobs with growth” in India.
We will stimulate job creation by providing financial incentives to corporates for
additional hiring in sectors with high employment potential, particularly emphasising
manufacturing and labour-intensive industries. This initiative will increase the number
of jobs and enhance the quality of these jobs, ensuring sustainable economic growth
through a more engaged and skilled workforce.
The Production Linked Incentives (PLI) scheme will be enhanced. TMC will boost
industrial job creation by bringing more sectors into PLI.
We will bolster industrial job creation by bringing more sectors with high job generation
potential, especially manufacturing-focused ones, under the PLI scheme, such as
agro-processing, construction and real estate, and retail and wholesale trade.
A Special Commission will be set up to draft the long-term national policy
directive for the informal and unorganised sector.
Noting how the effects of demonetization and COVID have devastated the working
prospects of India’s informal and unorganized sector, which generates the lion’s
share of employment in our country, we will establish a Special Commission with
a responsibility of determining feasible long-term policies for the enhancement of
wages, working conditions, access to formal credit, labour codes & protections, etc.
for all who work in this sector.
MANIFESTO 2024 29
RUOBAL
DNA
YRTSUDNIMANIFESTO 2024 3004
Odhik utpadon,
Krishoker unnoyon sadhon
Key Goals
Farming machinery will be made more
accessible to Bengal’s farmers, and more
Farmers Produce Organizations (FPOs) will be
created for them
MSP for farmers all over India will be
legally guaranteed as per the
recommendations of the Swaminathan
Commission
MANIFESTO 2024 31
ERUTLUCIRGAWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: They bulldozed the Farm
Bills in Parliament, but had to repeal them in the face of determined
protests by the farmers of India
The 3 controversial farm laws laid bare BJP’s true intentions for India’s farmers:
shocking disdain for their lives or livelihoods
The Union Government made every effort to suppress farmers peacefully standing
up for their rights, cruelly subjecting them to police brutality, arbitrarily detaining
dozens of protestors, and demonising them
The BJP-led Union Government’s disregard for our farmers’ livelihoods is evident in
how it has failed to guarantee a legal status to MSP and further imposed costs on
them by slapping a GST on essential agricultural inputs
With total outstanding agricultural loans increasing from ₹9.64 Lakh Crore in 2014 to
₹23.44 Lakh Crore in 2021-22, the BJP-led Union Government has led farmers into a
debt trap
Agriculture’s share in the Union budget has dwindled from 4.4% to 2.5% over the
past 4 years, hurting farmers with minimal investment in infrastructure, subsidies,
or support programmes
The BJP-led Union Government promised to double farmers income by 2022, but at
current rate it won’t happen before 2035
The inefficiency of the BJP-led Union Government is glaringly evident — it has only
recovered 1/10th of the ₹3,000 Crore transferred to 42 Lakh fraudulent beneficiaries
under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The
fortunes of the farmers of Bengal have undergone a
stunning transformation in the last decade
The budget for Agriculture and Allied Services has increased tenfold, from
₹2,274 Crore in 2010-11 to ₹22,620 Crore in 2024-25
Under Krishak Bandhu scheme, over 1 Crore of small and marginal farmers
are being provided financial assistance of ₹10,000 p.a.
Under Bangla Shasya Bima initiative, 70 Lakh farmers are benefitting from
crop insurance coverage
Bengal is India’s leading producer of jute, paddy, and mesta today
Bengal is the 2nd largest producer of fish in India, doubling its export of
fish from 59,774 MT (2010-11) to 1,25,193 MT (2022-23)
MANIFESTO 2024 32What the TMC Government pledges to do: Stand shoulder-to-
shoulder with our Krishak Bandhus and represent their rights,
interests, and livelihoods
For Bengal
Farming machinery will be made more accessible to farmers. TMC will support
our farmers to enhance their agricultural productivity.
We will establish 2,000 farm machinery hubs (Custom Hiring Centres) across the state.
Farmers Produce Organizations will be established to elevate farmer earnings.
TMC will foster the development of effective support ecosystems for our farmers.
We will establish 1,200 additional Farmers Produce Organizations (FPOs) across
Bengal, to enable our farmers to bolster their livelihoods through bulk procurement
of quality inputs and increased autonomy to manage selling of their produce at
mandis.
Potato growers will be provided with insurance premium support. TMC will
support the livelihood of 20 Lakh potato growers of Bengal.
We will cover the premium for potato crops under the Bangla Sasya Bima Yojana
(Crop Insurance Scheme) and ensure that farmers have a safe income blanket across
seasons.
Fishermen will be provided with off-season livelihood assistance. TMC will
support fishermen of Bengal’s livelihood and ensure their well-being during off-
seasons.
We will launch the Samudra Sathi scheme, offering financial assistance of ₹5,000 per
month for 2 months during off-seasons or periods of moratorium to cover livelihood
interruptions for marine fishermen in Bengal, and then replicate the same for the
rest of the country.
For India
The key recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission will be adopted.
TMC will ensure a dignified livelihood for our nation’s farmers.
We will set up an Expert Committee to assess the cost of production for major crops
in various regions and, based on its recommendations, introduce a bill in Parliament
that legally mandates an MSP at least 50% higher than the average cost of production
of all such crops.
A price stabilisation fund will also be set up to manage procurement, which will be in
line with the Committee’s recommendations.
Existing export controls on agricultural commodities will be reviewed and a
more farmer-friendly export policy will be initiated. TMC will give the needs and
MANIFESTO 2024 33
ERUTLUCIRGAinterests of farmers a firm priority in determining the future of agricultural exports.
Despite having only 2.4% of the world’s land and 4% of its water resources, Indian
agricultural exports support a substantial 17.8% of the world’s population.
Recognizing the role India’s prevailing export controls have played in the plight of our
nation’s farmers, we will undertake a comprehensive reform of India’s import-export
policy for agricultural commodities, with emphasis on making it more farmer-friendly.
» The basket of agricultural exports will be diversified to include value-added
products and target a wider range of international markets
» A stable commodities trading policy will be established — the bans on export of
wheat, rice, and sugar, which India used to hold a leadership position in the world
export market, will be reviewed
» Investment in cold-chain infrastructure and logistics will be enhanced, with
greater focus on preserving the value of fruits and vegetables
» Investment in agricultural research and development will be doubled from 0.5%
of the existing agricultural GDP to at least 1%
Cases registered against farmers during farmers’ protest will be immediately
withdrawn. TMC will protect our cultivators from unnecessary legal censure.
In our recognition of the validity of their courageous struggle for their rights, we
will immediately withdraw all cases registered against farmers during the farmers’
protest, restoring reconciliatory relations with the community.
Fishermen will be provided with greater access to institutional credit. TMC will
bridge the credit access gap for the fishermen community.
In order to enable the fishermen community to integrate more deeply with institutional
sources of financing, we will set up cooperative banks for fishermen where they can
avail credit at subsidized rates through simplified borrowing procedures.
We will also issue Kisan Credit Cards to fishermen, to enable them to access additional
credit flexibly, as well as as avail of interest subvention and insurance for assets like
boats and catching equipment.
MANIFESTO 2024 34MANIFESTO 2024 35MANIFESTO 2024 3605
Shikhhar agrogoti,
Somajer progoti
Key Goals
National recognition will be provided to
higher educational institutions from
Bengal
India’s budget expenditure on education
will be doubled from 2.5% to 5% of overall
budget
The number of higher education
scholarships for OBCs, SC and STs across
India will be increased
MANIFESTO 2024 37
NOITACUDEWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Destroying the
glorious traditions of the Indian education and corrupting
institutions built over decades
Stooping to a despicable low, the BJP Jomidars have jeopardised the future of Bengal’s
children by withholding ₹17,300 Crore of Samagra Shiksha Mission funds
The Union Government through the Governor’s office has tried to jeopardise the
future of students through arbitrary appointment of interim Vice-chancellors,
deliberate hindrances and objections to the functioning of GoWB’s Department of
Higher Education
The BJP-led Union Government has turned the University Grants Commission into
a pitiful PR agent, focused on creating ‘selfie points’ and advertising controversial
bills while also slashing funding for the Dept. of Higher Education by over ₹9,000 Crore
In a shameless attempt to saffronise history, the BJP-led Union Government is
arm-twisting National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) into
arbitrarily altering narrations of historical events and rewriting Indian history in
propagandist undertones
The BJP-led Union Government’s botched National Education Policy is yet another
attack on federalism and fails to account for the distinct educational requirements,
linguistic needs, and exam procedures of each state
Of the 18,956 sanctioned teaching positions in 45 Union Government universities,
about one-third (6,028) were lying vacant as of early 2023
By discontinuing pre-matric scholarships of approximately ₹23,000 Crore, the
BJP-led Union Government has put affordable education out of the reach of lakhs of
India’s OBC and minority students
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: From
KG to PG, the TMC has enhanced quality, equality and
access to education
The Education, Sports, Arts, and Culture budget has tripled from ₹13,872
Crore in 2010-11 to ₹47,470 Crore in 2024-25
Kanyashree scheme has been accredited with the prestigious United Nations
Public Services Award, benefitting more than 85 Lakh girls with financial
assistance from upper primary to post-graduate studies
30 new universities, 52 colleges, 298 ITIs, 202 polytechnics and 2,21,849
additional classrooms have been created since 2010
Sabooj Sathi scheme awarded by the United Nations’ World Summit on the
Information Society has provided bicycles to over 1.25 Crore students, 36
lakh students have received financial aid for tablets under Taruner Swapno
MANIFESTO 2024 38Owing to the success of its schemes, Bengal has achieved a 0% dropout
rate at the upper primary level
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Protect the solid
foundation of India’s education system which the BJP have tried
to destroy. We will boost the future of our children and youth
For Bengal
National recognition will be provided to higher educational institutions from
Bengal. TMC will take steps to enhance the prospects of higher education in the state.
» We will submit a proposal to grant “Institute of Eminence” status to Jadavpur
University
» We will fast-track the pending National Assessment and Accreditation Council
(NAAC) accreditation processes of 143 higher education institutions in Bengal
Vice-Chancellors will be appointed without any political interference. TMC will
ensure that the appointment of Vice-Chancellors is made without any political
interference, upholding the tenet of federalism enshrined in the Constitution.
We will amend the 2018 UGC Regulations and introduce new guidelines to ensure
Vice-Chancellors of State-run universities are appointed in consultation with the
respective state Legislative Assemblies.
A Model Residential School will be established in each block of the state. TMC
will ensure quality schooling for our children.
We will set up technologically-equipped model residential schools with state-of-the-
art infrastructure, digital libraries and sports facilities through the construction or
upgradation of schools in all 341 blocks of the state.
Tablets/smartphones will be provided as an educational aid to students. TMC
will affordably promote digital literacy for Bengal’s students.
Through a grant of ₹10,000 per pupil under the Taruner Swapno scheme, we will
enable students to purchase tablets/smartphones for digital learning and access to
online study materials.
Further, the criteria of eligibility will be revised from Class XII to Class XI, so that
students can use these devices for two years instead of one.
MANIFESTO 2024 39
NOITACUDE
For India
National Education Policy will be amended to restore states’ autonomy. TMC will
ensure that the policy is modified by setting up a steering committee with experts and
stakeholders from each state to protect the institutional needs, learning requirementsand linguistic demands of all states.
» We will not implement the 5+3+3+2 structure and instead encourage each state
to follow its own educational structure pertinent to its own needs
» We will abolish common entrance tests nationwide and restore the rights of state
educational institutions to conduct their own admission processesal
India’s budget expenditure on education will be increased to 5% of the overall
budget. TMC will ensure that education is re-prioritized.
We will double the expenditure on education from 2.5% to 5% of overall budget.
The enhanced budget will be spent towards more effectively implementing the
fundamental Right To Education, through free/subsidised provision of uniforms, study
materials, mid-day-meals, etc. to all students up to Class XII, all across the country.
We will further take steps to re-evaluate the needs of the states in consultation with
state Education Departments to enhance their spending on education as well.
All teaching vacancies in Union Government universities will be filled on priority.
TMC will prioritise the filling of all teaching vacancies to close all teacher shortages in
Union universities.
We will ensure over 6,000 vacancies across 45 Union Government universities across
India — constituting one-third of all available positions — are filled within a year with
a special focus on the universities in Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir,
Tripura, where nearly half of such posts lie vacant today. Appropriate emphasis will
also be placed on ensuring OBC, SC, and ST teacher vacancies are duly filled.
The number of higher education scholarships for OBCs, SC and STs will be
increased. TMC will uplift youth from marginalised communities through the medium
of education.
In order to overcome the education access gap that continues to persist among India’s
OBCs, SCs and STs and thereby enrich the development of human capital in these
communities, we will increase the number of higher education scholarship grants
available to them.
All students from these communities enrolling in degree programmes, post-graduate
programmes, as well as in other courses leading to diplomas or certificates will be
able to avail of such scholarships and access quality education.
Pre-matric scholarships for classes I-VIII for disadvantaged groups will be re-
introduced. Pre-matric scholarships will be re-introduced and tripled in number, with
a comprehensive plan to uplift students from OBC, SC/ST and minority communities.
» Guidelines of PM Young Achievers Scholarship Award Scheme for Vibrant India for
OBCs and Others (2021-22 to 2025-26) will be modified to also include students
from classes I-VIII, currently excluded.
» Similarly, new guidelines covering students from classes I-X under the Pre-Matric
Scholarship For Students Belonging to the Minority Communities will be released
by the Ministry of Minority Affairs.
A policy will be introduced to curb the menace of paper leaks. TMC will end the
repeated misconduct in competitive examinations and preserve the future of our
youth.
MANIFESTO 2024 40We will introduce a bill in Parliament to amend the Public Examinations (Prevention of
Unfair Means) Bill 2024 with provisions to:
» Constitute an independent judicial commission (Union and State level) to oversee
the conduct of competitive examinations, end-to-end
» Conduct rigorous audits of the various steps that involve third parties, such as
printing and transportation of question papers
» Integrate evidence-based technology through fool-proof IT security systems to
ensure comprehensive electronic surveillance of the various procedures involved
» Formulate national standards and protocols for third-party agencies to conduct
examinations
The school curriculum will be made free of propaganda. TMC will ensure India’s
school education remains bias-free.
We will set up an impartial and independent Review Committee of subject experts
to ensure that the contents of school textbooks across India are audited for quality
and remain free of propaganda, censor, or factual revisionism in the context of Indian
history. Through this, we will strive to preserve an element of critical thinking and
scientific temperament in India’s school curriculum.
MANIFESTO 2024 41
NOITACUDEMANIFESTO 2024 4206
Suswasthyer ongikar,
Sustho bangla sobar
Key Goals
Doorstep delivery of modern healthcare
services will be introduced
India’s healthcare budget will be increased
to 6% of overall budget
Ayushman Bharat health insurance
programme will be replaced with a
stronger health insurance programme
with an increased cover of ₹10 Lakh, in
line with Bengal’s Swasthya Sathi scheme
MANIFESTO 2024 43
ERACHTLAEHWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Displayed a
significantly regressing commitment to healthcare in India
By withholding ₹2,298 Crore of National Health Mission funds, the BJP-led Union
Government has deprived crores of residents of Bengal of accessible and affordable
healthcare services
The BJP-led Union Government has slashed India’s healthcare budget from 1.1% of
the GDP in 2021 to merely 0.3% in 2024, plunging our future healthcare needs into
grave uncertainty
No citizen will forget the panic and despair from when the BJP-led Union Government’s
mishandling of the COVID pandemic. India witnessed severe bed, oxygen, and
medicine shortages, countless displaced migrants, and numerous death toll coverups
Union Government’s PM CARES Fund has also been a catastrophic failure — its lack
of transparency, supply of defective equipment, and audit evasion all underline
his Government’s mala fide intentions for the funds in it
The Ayushman Bharat Jan Arogya Yojana, touted as a crowning success of the Union
Government, is marred by exclusivity. Its discriminatory eligibility criteria render
healthcare services inaccessible to the majority of needy citizens
CAG has exposed the BJP-led Union Government’s mismanagement of Ayushman
Bharat funds — 7.5 Lakh beneficiaries tied to fake numbers, ₹1.1 Crore paid to dead
patients, 4,761 registrations linked to just 7 Aadhaar cards
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The TMC
has pioneered universal healthcare for people of Bengal,
putting quality care within reach for all
The budget allocated for the health sector has increased fivefold from
₹3,442 Crore in 2010 to ₹20,053 Crore in 2024
Bengal has successfully achieved universal health coverage with the help
of its revolutionary Swasthya Sathi scheme, providing free care up to ₹5
Lakh per year
Since 2011, healthcare infrastructure has been expanded widely in Bengal,
with 42 Super Speciality Hospitals, 329 Hospitals and medical facilities,
and 3,407 Nursing Homes are operational
Since 2011, the number of beds in Government hospitals has increased
from 58,647 to 97,000, while Government doctors have more than tripled
from 4,800 to 18,213 in 2023
Bengal’s Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) fell from 32 to 19 (40%) and Maternal
Mortality Rate (MMR) from 117 to 103 (12%) from 2011 to 2020; institutional
MANIFESTO 2024 44What the TMC Government pledges to do: Continually elevate the
standard of healthcare and improve access to quality healthcare
For Bengal
Two-fold increase in paramedical staff will be implemented to bolster the
workforce in healthcare. To enhance patient care and healthcare access and
improve emergency responses, we will double the number of seats for paramedics
to strengthen the healthcare system’s capacity and effectiveness.
Special mobile health vans will be introduced to provide doorstep delivery of
healthcare services. TMC will ensure basic health care services remain within last-
mile reach for all.
We will launch mobile health vans equipped with modern facilities to provide services
such as diagnostic tests, immunizations, delivery of generic as well as branded
medicines, etc., enabling citizens to access these services conveniently at their
doorstep.
Stronger incentives will be created to incentivize more doctors to serve in rural
areas. TMC will take steps to ensure shortages of doctors in remote areas become a
thing of the past.
In line with the recommendations of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), we will hike
the hardship and housing allowances for serving in underserved areas for doctors in
order to make such deputations more attractive.
Swasthya Sathi scheme will be extended to out-migrant workers of Bengal. TMC
will ensure our migrant workers remain supported wherever they are.
We will extend the benefits of the Swasthya Sathi Scheme to 28 Lakh migrant workers
who reside and work outside Bengal and are registered on the Karmasathi Parijayee
Shramik Portal. Migrant workers will have access to hospital care in their place of
work through insurance coverage.
A specialised medical institution will be established in North Bengal to treat
infectious diseases. TMC will ensure timely diagnosis and treatment of contagious
diseases.
We will establish a dedicated medical institution in the premises of North Bengal
Medical College & Hospital, similar to the “Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General
Hospital” for treatment. The institution will focus on early diagnosis, containment
and advanced treatment for diseases like rabies, measles, dengue, malaria, etc.
MANIFESTO 2024 45
ERACHTLAEH
deliveries increased to 99.2% in 2023 from 68.1% in 2011
Since their inception, Su-Swasthya Kendras (SSKs) have recorded 19 Crore
visits and distributed free medicines to patients 16 Crore timesFor India
India’s healthcare budget will be tripled to 6% of the overall budget. TMC will
urgently reprioritize adequate spending on public health.
To provide access to quality and affordable healthcare to all citizens, The TMC will
triple the allocation for healthcare from 1.9% to 6% of India’s overall budget.
Doing so will enable greater spending on areas of prominent need, such as the
upgradation of rural healthcare infrastructure and last-mile access to at-risk
communities such as anaemic children, pregnant women, and ageing rural poor.
The existing Ayushman Bharat health insurance programme will be replaced
with a superior Swasthya Sathi health insurance programme with a cover of ₹10
Lakh. TMC will ensure superior healthcare coverage for India’s poor and vulnerable.
To strengthen people’s ability to avail of subsidised secondary health care, we will
replace the existing Jan Arogya Yojana with the Swasthya Sathi programme for the
entire nation, modelled on Bengal’s acclaimed scheme of the same name, doubling
the insurance cover for each beneficiary from ₹5 Lakh to ₹10 Lakh.
Health Insurance Cards will be issued to all 10 Crore beneficiaries, enabling them to
access medical treatment at suitable public or private hospitals, including coverage
for all pre-existing medical conditions.
PM CARES Fund will be brought under the purview of RTI and Parliament. TMC
will bring total accountability to the PM CARES Fund, which is now completely opaque.
By classifying it as “public authority”, we will bring the fund under the RTI Act. To
enhance oversight, we will reclassify PM CARES as a public fund to bring it under the
purview of Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC), ensuring that every rupee
in it is spent towards building stronger, more resilient healthcare services.
Maitri Sampoorn Pushti initiative will be launched. TMC will ensure better attention
is provided to pregnant/lactating mothers and their newborn children.
To reduce IMR and MMR in the country, we will launch the Maitri Sampoorn Pushti
initiative for poor pregnant and lactating mothers, belonging to economically weaker
sections, providing them with nutrition kits. Beneficiaries will receive two nutrition
kits and a childcare essentials kit.
MANIFESTO 2024 46MANIFESTO 2024 47MANIFESTO 2024 4807
Porikathamoy unnoti,
Doinondin jibone agrogoti
Key Goals
All households will be provided access to
tap drinking water connections
All habitations will be connected via all-
weather roads
Dignified housing will be provided to India
and Bengal’s poor
MANIFESTO 2024 49
ERUTCURTSARFNIWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: The Union
Government has repeatedly deprived Bengal and other states,
misappropriated funds and neglected basic infrastructure
11.3 Lakh beneficiaries in Bengal have been deprived of homes, as ₹8,140 Crore of
Awas Yojana funds have been withheld by the Union Government
Since 2021, the BJP-led Union Government has not transferred even ₹1 to Bengal
under Awas Yojana (G)
Recently, since the provision for dignified housing was deliberately denied by the
Union Government, the people affected by the storm in Jalpaiguri were left devastated
The BJP-led Union Government has deliberately plunged Bengal’s rural development
into neglect by delaying approval of roadworks and halting ₹2,841 Crore of Gram
Sadak Yojana funds
From rural to urban civic amenities, the BJP-led Union Government has stifled
infrastructural development in Bengal by withholding ₹48 Crore of Atal Mission for
Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) funds
The BJP jomidars did not sanction a single rupee to Bengal for the Ghatal Master Plan,
risking the lives and livelihood of around 17 Lakh people residing in flood-prone
areas
The BJP-led Union Government’s glaring incompetency and inefficacy have resulted
in approximately 60% of Union Government projects getting stalled or delayed,
leading to ₹4.7 Lakh Crore of cost overruns
The BJP-led Union Government failed to fulfil their promise of increased air connectivity
and affordable air travel — 93% of routes under the UDAN scheme have failed to
sustain operations even with hefty concessions
The BJP-led Union Government’s gross negligence of ageing railway infrastructure has
resulted in 244 train accidents (between 2017 and 2022). 50% of the compulsory
track inspections have not been done and over three lakh positions in the Railways
(gazetted and non-gazetted) are still vacant
The BJP-led Union Government’s Smart City Mission has failed to fulfil the dreams
of thousands of urban dwellers by failing to meet 2023 deadlines for 400 projects
worth ₹22,814 Crore
BJP failed to operationalise the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project by 2022 as
promised. The project as per current status will not be completed till 2027, incurring
severe cost overruns in the process
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The TMC
has built an infrastructural foundation for development
that every person in Bengal is proud of
Over 60 Lakh rural families have received sturdy housing to date; while
MANIFESTO 2024 50approximately 4 Lakh tea garden workers without permanent housing
are being ensured a home under Cha Sundari
Under Pathashree, 26,487 KM of roads have been constructed and repaired
along with an additional 12,000 KM of rural roads under construction
Tap water connections have been extended to 71.6 Lakh rural households
along with facilitation of running water supply for 59,916 schools, 43,866
Anganwadis, and 8,298 health centres
Bengal’s installed power capacity base increased 65% from 9,402.4 MW in
2011 to 15,529.77 MW in 2023
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Focus on building
quality infrastructure across the nation
For Bengal
Guaranteed housing will be provided to Bengal’s poor. With or without the Union
Government’s support, TMC will ensure dignified housing for everyone.
Given the BJP Government’s refusal to fund houses for the poor in Bengal, we will
independently build 11.2 Lakh houses for all eligible beneficiaries, fully financed by
the state. An additional 5.8 Lakh houses will be built in a subsequent phase.
24x7 functional drinking tap water connection will be provided to all households.
TMC will provide piped drinking water facilities to an additional 1 Crore households,
thereby ensuring 100% clean and safe drinking water coverage across the state.
All habitations in Bengal will be connected via all-weather roads. TMC will ensure
that all of Bengal has access to quality roads.
Through Pathashree-Rastashree, we will continue to renovate roads and expand rural
connectivity by constructing 12,000 KM of rural roads.
The Kolkata Metro will be extended further. TMC will ensure that all the citizens of
Kolkata can commute using fast, affordable, and comfortable transportation from any
corner of the city.
We will add a total of 11.5 KM to the existing Kolkata Metro network to help the metro
line reach every corner of Kolkata, effectively covering maximum suburban areas.
The Ghatal Master Plan will be completed in mission mode. TMC will ensure that
our people in flood-prone regions are not left at the mercy of the Union Government’s
whims.
Under the Master Plan’s Flood Management scheme, the resuscitation of 19 KM of
riverbank has already been completed. We will ensure the timely completion of the
project, even if the Union Government fails to fulfil its funding obligations.
MANIFESTO 2024 51
ERUTCURTSARFNIFor India
Dignified housing will be ensured for India’s poor. TMC will strive to give every
poor family a home.
By streamlining regulatory processes, approving Awas Yojana applications faster for
new beneficiaries, and speeding up the procedures for allocation of land for housing
projects, we will ensure that provision of housing for eligible beneficiaries happens at
a faster rate.
In this manner, the dream of dignified housing can become a reality for all of India’s
poor.
An action plan to overhaul the infrastructure of India’s railways will be
formulated. TMC will ensure India’s railway infrastructure is modernized. Ensuring
affordable rail travel for every citizen will be our number one priority.
Taking cognizance of the massive passenger volumes it serves and the persisting need
to renovate ageing infrastructure, we will formulate an action plan to overhaul India’s
railways, focusing on:
» Installation of anti-collision technology on train engines and modern signalling
systems on track routes to improve passenger safety
» Accelerating the completion of dedicated freight corridors (DFCs) to separate
freight and passenger traffic which will increase the speed and reliability of both
freight and passenger trains
» Enhancement of the web architecture of the IRCTC portal to enable a more
responsive user experience for booking tickets, making frequent website crashes
or booking failures a thing of the past
» Implementation of digital and app-based solutions for ticketing, real-time tracking,
and customer service to enhance passenger experience
The Railway Budget will be delinked from the General Budget. TMC will ensure
appropriate budgetary focus for one of the world’s largest railway networks.
We will reinstate a separate budget for railways to effectively address the infrastructure,
operational, and financial requirements of Indian Railways. We will also establish suitable
criteria to reintroduce concessional fares for senior citizens above the age of 60.
Port development and port-led industrialization will be prioritised. TMC will
facilitate development of new ports and upgrade existing ports for the growth for
India’s coastal regions.
We will give the paradigm of port-led industrialization paramount importance in
economic and industrial development. Efforts will be made to:
» Modernize existing port infrastructure, such as upgrading cargo handling
equipment to increase capacity and efficiency and digitizing permits and processes
to improve the ease of doing business at ports
» Notify more Coastal Economic Zones (CEZs) and develop critical infrastructure
such as freight corridors, logistic parks, and multimodal transport solutions to set
up thriving industrial clusters around major deep-water ports
» Improve connectivity between ports and mainland regions through better road
MANIFESTO 2024 52and inland waterway networks
Measures will be taken to strengthen India’s national power grid. TMC will
systematically bolster the country’s power grid to ensure stability and consistency
in power supply.
Noting the significant annual strains on India’s power grid, especially during the
summer months in the country, remedial measures will be undertaken to develop a
more resilient grid, focusing on:
» Addressing supply shortages, especially in areas heavily reliant on traditional
sources such as thermal power plants
» Modernization of transmission infrastructure by accelerating the adoption of
smart grid technologies to minimize transmission and distribution losses
» Integration of real-time monitoring systems and increasing grid automation to
make the power grid sturdier in the face of heat waves and/or other disaster
scenarios such as storms
» Integration of more Green Hydrogen into the power grid by boosting current
storage and distribution infrastructure
MANIFESTO 2024 53
ERUTCURTSARFNIMANIFESTO 2024 5408
Jatiyo surokhay,
Amrai korbo joy
Key Goals
India’s national border security apparatus
will be effectively strengthened
MANIFESTO 2024 55
YTIRUCES
LANOITANWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Despite all its bluster,
the BJP has failed to deal with national security threats
Nearly 6 years after the fateful Pulwama tragedy that claimed the lives of 40 brave
soldiers, the BJP continues to hide the truth behind this catastrophic incident
An increase in the BSF’s jurisdiction by the BJP-led Union Government has not only
caused complete encroachment on the private lives of citizens, but also translated to
injudicious killings of many innocent people of Bengal
The 2020 Chinese incursion in Galwan saw the first bloody clash between India and
China in decades, resulting in 20 casualties, with BJP’s response not deterring the
continued construction of Chinese infrastructure along the border
Indifferent to BJP’s rhetoric, China has continued its military and infrastructure
buildup in Doklam, jeopardising the security of the Siliguri corridor and the Indian
mainland’s connectivity to the northeast
Despite 21 rounds of high-level talks, Chinese troops continue to boldly occupy
thousands of kilometres of the Indian territory
The BJP-led Union Government has disregarded the ethos and plunged the future of
our armed forces into the darkness to fill the coffers of its allies by awarding 40 Sainik
School agreements to private educational institutes affiliated with RSS and others
associated with the BJP
The Union Government’s ill-conceived and thoughtless Agnipath scheme has
undermined the professionalism of the Indian armed forces and jeopardised the
future of countless youth
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Strengthen our nation’s
defense to ensure a safer future for all
For Bengal
The jurisdiction of BSF will revert to 15 KM along Bengal’s border areas. We ensure
the safety of the country while preserving the interests of the people of Bengal.
We will suitably amend the BSF Act, 1968 to adjust the Border Security Force’s official
jurisdiction from the current 50 KM to the previous limit of 15 KM along Bengal’s
border.
Areas along the border will be developed for the benefit of residents. We will
strengthen our efforts in improving the lives and livelihoods of the people residing
along the state’s international border through construction of roads and other critical
infrastructure.
MANIFESTO 2024 56For India
India’s national border security apparatus will be effectively strengthened.
Every effort will be made to improve India’s security and safety.
We will amend the current BSF Act to establish an independent oversight committee
to promptly investigate allegations of misuse of force against innocent citizens during
peacetime.
The Agnipath scheme. We will restore the Indian Armed Forces’ traditional recruitment
mechanisms.
MANIFESTO 2024 57
YTIRUCES
LANOITANMANIFESTO 2024 5809
Swabolombi nari,
Joyjoykar tari
Key Goals
The revolutionary Lakshmir Bhandar
Scheme will be further strengthened with
₹1,000 per month (₹12,000 annually) for
general women and ₹1,200 per month
(₹14,400 annually) for SC/ST women and
extended across the country
MANIFESTO 2024 59
TNEMREWOPME
NEMOWWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Women’s safety has
deteriorated into a living nightmare
BJP leaders, during every political visit to Bengal, have incessantly mocked, insulted,
and catcalled the only woman Chief Minister of the country, Mamata Banerjee
TMC women leaders faced brutal mistreatment at the hands of the Delhi Police
during their protest in Delhi, as they fiercely demanded the rightful dues of West
Bengal withheld by the BJP-led Union Government
Under BJP regime, crimes against women in our country have soared by a staggering
31% since 2014
The collective conscience of the nation has been rattled by heart-wrenching cases of
rape, as seen in Kathua, Unnao, and Hathras — minor or adult, Dalit or upper caste,
women are not safe under BJP
India ranks 127/146 countries in the Global Gender Gap Index 2023 — a stark
testament to how far we have slipped in empowering women
The women of India must never forgive the BJP-led Union Government for how it
humiliated our champion women wrestlers, the pride of our nation, by ignoring
their cry for justice against BJP MP Brij Bhushan
The BJP’s indifference towards the safety and plight of women is evident from the fact
that 30% of the Nirbhaya Fund remains unutilised
Gruesome visuals of two ST women being paraded naked by a vicious mob in
Manipur shame us all
The horrendous Bilkis Bano gang rape case has horrified every Indian
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The TMC
has an unrivalled legacy of empowering women across
the social, economic, and political spheres
Over 2 Crore women have been uplifted and financially empowered
through the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme
For the 3rd year in a row, Kolkata has been declared India’s safest city by
the National Crime Records Bureau
44% of Bengal’s State Development Budget (SDB) has been allocated to
women’s empowerment and gender equality in 2024-25
Under the Jai Bangla Pension scheme, 11.65 Lakh women have received the
Old Age Pension, 20 Lakh women have benefited from the Widow Pension,
providing financial independence and security to vulnerable women
MANIFESTO 2024 60Bengal is foremost in the country in linking credit to SHGs, with more than
11 Lakh SHGs successfully linked to credit, with an astounding ₹90,000 Crore
of bank credit already disbursed
With India’s only woman Chief Minister and one-third of TMC MPs as women
in the outgoing Lok Sabha, Bengal has set the pace in women’s political
representation
Reservation for women in Panchayati Raj Institutions has been expanded
to 50%; the number of elected female representatives has increased from
21,351 in 2008 to 30,458 in 2023
Putting women’s safety at the forefront, 49 women police stations have
been established in the state
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Uphold the dignity,
promote the financial independence, and ensure the safety of
every Indian woman
For Bengal
The revolutionary Lakshmir Bhandar Scheme will be further strengthened. TMC
will continue to economically empower the women of Bengal.
Financial assistance under the programme has been enhanced to ₹1,000 per month
for general women (₹12,000 annually), and to ₹1,200 per month for SC/ST women
(₹14,400 annually). This will continue to be delivered to all 2.1 Crore beneficiaries via
Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).
33% Reservation for women in the State Assembly will be formally enforced.
TMC will build on its rich legacy of encouraging women’s participation in politics.
We will formally adopt 33% reservation for women in our state legislative assembly
and, as we have in the past, continue to take measures to enhance women’s
participation in politics across all levels in our state.
District-level SHG Bazaars will be set up across Bengal. TMC will help SHGs
participate more strongly in the State’s economy.
To integrate our SHGs more deeply into the economy, we will set up dedicated
marketplaces in each district where they can showcase their products for sale.
This will result in greater SHG-market linkage, help them market their wares more
effectively, and sell to more customers, unlocking greater prosperity for our hard-
working women entrepreneurs.
MANIFESTO 2024 61
TNEMREWOPME
NEMOWMore women will be appointed in the state constabulary. TMC will diversify its
police force to provide job opportunities to women and improve safety.
We will ensure at least 33% of all existing police vacancies in Bengal are filled by
trained women police officers, within the next 12 months. 16 additional women-only
police stations will be built across the state to take the total number of such stations
to 65.
‘Suraksha’ App will be launched to provide emergency response services to
women.
To enhance safety and security of women, the ‘Suraksha’ App will be introduced
alongside the existing helpline number 1091. This app will let women raise SOS alerts
in emergencies and swiftly connect them with nearby police patrols. We will also
run awareness programmes and training sessions on using the app to encourage its
widespread use.
For India
A guaranteed, unconditional income of ₹1,000 per month (General) and ₹1,200
per month (SC, ST) will be provided to every woman.
Learning from the success of Bengal’s Lakshmir Bhandar scheme, we will provide all
women in India a monthly financial assistance of ₹1,000 (General) and ₹1,200 (SC,
ST), which will effectively supplement their annual income by an amount of ₹12,000
and ₹14,400 respectively.
This amount will be credited to every woman enrolled via DBT every month, with an
intent to provide financial independence to every woman.
A conditional annual academic scholarship of ₹1,000 to all girls aged 13-18 years
and a one-time ₹25,000 higher education grant will be provided to college-
age girls. TMC will ensure India’s young girls are nurtured socioeconomically and
academically.
Learning from the success of Bengal’s UN-award winning Kanyashree Prakalpa, which
has uplifted over 85 Lakh girls from poor families out of poverty and away from the
scourge of premature marriage and helped them get educated, an annual conditional
cash transfer of ₹1,000 will be provided to all girls aged 13 to 18 years for every year
that they remain enrolled in school and unmarried.
Upon turning 18, a larger one-time grant of ₹25,000 will also be provided to them
to aid the pursuit of vocational or higher education. Through these measures, we
will help India’s girls gain vital skills and knowledge that will help them become
economically independent.
Existing laws and acts designed to tackle gender discrimination or inequality in
the workplace will be reviewed. TMC will safeguard the rights of women in India’s
workplaces.
MANIFESTO 2024 62We will ensure that all acts designed to enhance women’s safety and create a respectful
work environment are meticulously scrutinised and duly revised. In particular, the
provisions of the Factories Act (1948), Equal Remuneration Act (1976), and the Sexual
Harassment of Women at Workplace Act (2013), will be strengthened to make their
protections for women in the workplace more comprehensive.
Fast-track courts will be established in every district. TMC will ensure swift justice
for women through dedicated, fast-track courts.
To tackle the backlog of crimes against women, we will establish 766 fast-track
courts, 1 in each district of India. They will be empowered to expedite justice delivery,
particularly in cases of crimes against women and offences covered by the Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
A new policy for the reintegration of women into the workforce will be
established. TMC will take measures to make it easier for women dropouts to reenter
the labour force.
To enhance the currently dire women’s labour force participation rate in the Indian
economy, we will introduce a new policy for the lakhs of women who are forced to
prematurely drop out of the workforce as a result of pregnancy, marriage, or other
socio-economic pressures.
The key components of this policy will be:
» A part-time work policy for women who are unable to work full-time due to
attendant childcare duties
» Introducing special reskilling programs in the existing skill development ecosystem
for knowledge and skill upgradation for women
» Job-based incentives for large firms (over 1,000 workers), based on the proportion
of hired and retained female workers
Bharatiya Mahila Bank will be revived. TMC will enhance access to banking services
and credit for women.
We will reestablish the erstwhile Bharatiya Mahila Bank, which was merged into the
State Bank of India in 2017, as a subsidiary of the SBI, with an initial capital of ₹1,000
Crore as per its founding conditions. The original plan to set up 800 branches across
India will be brought back on track, focusing the bank on supporting the development
of women entrepreneurs and bridging the gender borrowing gap.
MANIFESTO 2024 63
TNEMREWOPME
NEMOWMANIFESTO 2024 6410
Yuba shaktir bikash,
Agamir aswash
Key Goals
An annual statewide sports talent hunt will
be organised in Bengal
The educated youth of India will be provided
professional 1-year apprenticeships to
boost their employability
Student Credit Cards of up to ₹10 Lakh will
be provided to students pursuing higher
education
MANIFESTO 2024 65
HTUOYWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Wasted the boundless
potential of India’s aspirational youth
Contrary to the BJP-led Union Government’s promise of 2 Crore jobs every year,
unemployment hit an all-time high in 2022. India has witnessed unprecedented
joblessness, 83% of it among our youth, shattering the hopes and dreams of our
people
Despite the rampant joblessness, a staggering 10 Lakh Government posts have
remained vacant at the Centre, with no plan for filling them in sight
Between 2017-18 and 2022-23, the unemployment rate among graduates has soared
from 19.2% to 35.8% and that among postgraduates from 21.3% to 36.2%, exposing
the dire dearth of skilled jobs in the country
The BJP-led Union Government’s much-touted “Skill India” programme has failed
miserably — leaving a staggering 80% of the 1.4 crore trained youth under the
Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana scheme unemployed, shattering their aspirations
for a brighter future
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The TMC
Government’s focus on jobs and upskilling is unlocking
the potential of our youth
Bengal has attracted ₹11.5 Lakh Crore of investments in 13 years, creating
jobs for 1.3 Crore people
The annual intake of ITIs has surged threefold, rising from 16,715 across 80
ITIs in 2011 to 48,201 presently, spread across 298 ITIs in the state
UN-World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) 2019 awarded Scheme
Utkarsh Bangla, has provided short-term skill development support to 35.4
Lakh youth
‘Yuvashree’ has provided a monthly stipend of ₹1,500 (yearly ₹18,000) to job
seekers, benefiting a total of about 2 Lakh youth to date
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Build a better future
for the youth by unleashing their full potential across both work
and play
For Bengal
An annual statewide sports talent hunt will be organised. TMC will continue to
promote and uphold Bengal’s rich sporting heritage.
MANIFESTO 2024 66We will help Bengal’s youth engage with their sporting passions more meaningfully
by organizing statewide games to identify young athletes with potential, nurture their
talents, and encourage general sporting participation in sports among the youth.
» The programme will be conducted across 5 levels progressively: Village, Gram
Panchayat, Block, District, and State
» Games will be organized for 4 sports: football, cricket, kho-kho, kabaddi
» The top talents unearthed during each year’s talent hunt will be provided fully
state-sponsored training to play professionally and represent Bengal at the
national level and India at the global level, as well as a guaranteed job within the
state’s Panchayat-level cadre
Opportunities for internships in Government departments will be created for
students.
We will launch a new scheme called ‘Juboshakti’, in which 1-year long opportunities
will be provided to work closely with Government officers and get a ringside view of
governance processes in Bengal. A total of 10,000 such internships will be created
across Government departments and provided to students from colleges and
universities. Students who successfully complete internships will be provided with
certificates of merit.
Bengal’s first sports university will be set up. TMC will bolster Bengal’s position as
a leading state in sports development and performance.
We will establish Netaji Subhas University of Sports and Entrepreneurship in
Chinsurah, Hooghly, to offer advanced training, education and facilities to nurture
sports talent from Bengal and India.
A world-class football training academy will be established in partnership with
La Liga, Spain. TMC will elevate the quality of football training in Bengal.
We will establish a state-of-the-art football academy at Kishore Bharati Krirangan in
partnership with Spain’s premier domestic football league, La Liga, to nurture Bengal’s
football talent and prepare them to succeed on the national and global stage.
The Kanchenjunga Stadium in Siliguri will be upgraded to international
standards. TMC will enhance sports facilities and nurture sporting talent in North
Bengal.
We will upgrade playing surfaces, provide state-of-the-art equipment, and enhance
the existing hostel infrastructure at the Stadium to align it with international
standards. These enhancements will not only offer world-class amenities to athletes
and visitors but also serve to promote sports throughout the North Bengal region.
For India
The educated youth of India will be provided professional 1-year apprenticeships
to boost their employability. TMC will aid India’s youth to become ready for the job
market.
To professionalize India’s educated youth and ensure they are able to pick up skills
that enable them to secure employment and thrive thereon, we will initiate a new
MANIFESTO 2024 67
HTUOYnationwide programme to provide guaranteed 1-year apprenticeships to all diploma
holders or college graduates upto the age of 25, with prospects of assured skill growth
and future full-time employment for successful apprentices.
To enable youth to economically support themselves and more strongly incentivize
retention in skill-development courses once enrolled, they will be provided a suitable
monthly stipend, so that they can “earn as they learn”.
Student Credit Cards of up to ₹10 Lakh will be provided to students pursuing
higher education. TMC will make higher education more affordable for India’s
students.
Students pursuing higher education in India (graduation and post-graduation) shall
be eligible to avail of up to ₹10 Lakh of credit at a subsidised interest rate of 4%
through Student Credit Cards.
Through this, we will support crores of students, especially those from economically
weaker backgrounds in effectively funding their higher education.
Filling of the existing 10 Lakh vacancies in Government jobs will be prioritized.
We will undertake a comprehensive vacancy audit of all Union Government departments
to shortlist vacancies across the country, with a view to streamlining and standardising
recruiting procedures to set up a delay-free process.
On the basis of these steps, a comprehensive job calendar will be prepared, with
clear timelines for the filling of each department or public body’s vacancies. We will
thereafter institutionalise this process as an annual phenomenon.
India’s vocational training framework will be strongly modernized. TMC will
strive to create a more globally competitive, industry-linked, future-proofed vocational
education framework for the future of skill development in India.
This framework will include:
» An effort to establish ‘60:40’ model of skill development — 60% curricular learning
in the classroom, complemented by 40% on-the-job training on the factory floor
» Improved quality of training by upskilling teachers and offering cross learning
opportunity to teachers and industry experts through greater industry-academia
linkages
» Skill certification programmes for various industries designed (and continually
updated) in collaboration with global industry giants
» Programmes to train youth (including those from marginalised communities) in
skills relevant to emerging industries such as AI, ML, semiconductor component
fabrication, etc
State-of-the-art sporting academies will be created across India. TMC will develop
the infrastructure needed to effectively harness India’s sporting talent
In order to unearth, nurture, and fully develop the level of sporting talent our nation’s
massive population should yield, we will ensure world-class sporting “centres of
excellence” are developed across the country, which will focus on identification and
fostering of talent based on the sporting traditions of each region.
These will be equipped with modern infrastructure (playing surfaces, indoor/outdoor
practice facilities, residential amenities), as well as modern capabilities such as sports
science, nutrition centres, etc.
MANIFESTO 2024 68MANIFESTO 2024 69
HTUOYMANIFESTO 2024 7011
Sankhaloghu o tapashili,
Sokole mile egiye choli
Key Goals
Continue to fulfil aspirations of Bengal’s
various communities
The botched up Citizenship Amendment
Act (CAA) will be abolished, and the
National Register of Citizens (NRC) will be
discontinued
Uniform Civil Code (UCC) will not be
implemented across India
MANIFESTO 2024 71
ERAFLEW
YTIRONIM
DNA
TS
,CSWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Attempt to turn
our great nation into an abyss of fear and desperation for the
marginalised
The BJP-led Union Government has treated many of Bengal’s communities as
commodities. The long-standing demand of the Rajbanshis’ for a CAPF Narayani Sena
battalion has been ignored, 11 Gorkha sub-tribes have been awaiting ST status for a
decade
BJP takes the Matuas for granted, despite claiming to work for the upliftment of the
Matua community, they rejected the soil sent by them for the Ram Mandir Bhoomi
Pujan
Far from ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas’, the BJP Government has slashed the budget
allocation for the Ministry of Minority Affairs by 38% in 2023-24
Under the BJP-led Union Government, the lives of the marginalised have descended
into a state of sheer terror. From 2014 to 2022, atrocities against SCs have surged
by 42.5%, and those against STs by 47%
BJP workers’ vile act of defiling a tribal youth in Madhya Pradesh, gangrape of a Dalit
woman in Hathras, and Manipur’s gruesome visuals of tribal women paraded naked
exposed how the dignity of these communities have deteriorated in BJP-ruled
states
The BJP-led Union Government has oppressed and snatched away the rights of
minorities by introducing the unconstitutional CAA
BJP has created a ‘state-sponsored’ atmosphere of fear, intimidation, and
unaccountability, through the bulldozing of houses and desecration of places of
worship, coupled with unprecedented surge in violence, hate speech, and lynching
SC/ST enrollment in higher educational institutions has plummeted below the
overall national average. This exposes the stark disparity to equitable access. In the
last 5 years, 13,626 SC, ST, and OBC students have dropped out of central universities,
IITs, and IIMs
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The
marginalised have been empowered and uplifted in Bengal
To empower the SC/ST women of Bengal, the monthly financial assistance
under Lakshmir Bhandar has been enhanced from ₹1,000 (₹12,000 annually)
to ₹1,200 (₹14,400 annually)
To honour the legacy of eminent personalities, leaders, and reformers
belonging to SC/ST communities in the state Cooch Behar Thakur
Panchanan Barma University, Harichand-Guruchand University, and
Kabi Sadhu Ramchand Murmu University have been set up
MANIFESTO 2024 72The official recognition of Kurukh, Kurmali, Rajbanshi, and Santhali
languages serves as a testament to Bengal’s commitment to linguistic
diversity and inclusivity
Bengal’s State Assembly has unanimously passed a motion for the official
recognition of the Sari and Sarna religions, solidifying our state’s
commitment to honouring and upholding diverse religious traditions
48,953 private pattas and 851 community pattas have been issued
under the Forest Right Act, 2006, to preserve the land rights of the tribal
communities
7 Development and Cultural Boards have been established in Bengal to
preserve traditional culture for Hill tribes and other Scheduled Tribes
Financial aid of up to ₹800 annually has been provided to 1.15 Crore SC/ST
students of classes V-VIII through the Sikshashree scheme since inception
No state has granted as many minority scholarships as Bengal — over 3.4
Crore Aikyashree and other scholarships have been provided to minority
students which is the highest in the whole country
Under Taposili Bandhu scheme, old-age pensions of ₹1,000 per month
(₹12,000 annually) are provided to nearly 11 Lakh SCs
Under Jai Johar scheme, old-age pensions of ₹1,000 per month (₹12,000
yearly) are provided to over 3 Lakh STs
What the TMC Pledges to do: Ensure that fulfilling the aspirations
of India’s marginalised is a key focus of governance
For Bengal
A Narayani Sena Battalion will be formed under CAPF. TMC will honour the
historical and cultural heritage of the Rajbanshi community.
To pay homage to the history and commemorate the valour of the Narayani Sena
warriors and the Rajbanshis, we will formulate a proposal to the Ministry of Home
Affairs for the formation of a new CAPF Narayani Sena battalion.
A Task Force will be formed to evaluate and suggest OBC status for unrecognised
communities. TMC will ensure political and social recognition of communities left
out of the OBC list.
We will establish a task force to carefully assess and recommend OBC status to all
the communities who were recommended for assigning of OBC status by the Mandal
Commission but are not currently recognised.
MANIFESTO 2024 73
ERAFLEW
YTIRONIM
DNA
TS
,CSUpon completion of its preliminary assessments, we will immediately issue an official
notification to include these communities in the state’s OBC list. We will thereafter
engage with the National Commission for Backward Classes and the Ministry of Social
Justice and Empowerment to ensure the prompt inclusion of these communities in
the Union OBC list as well.
The 11 Gorkha Sub-Communities will be granted ST status. TMC will ensure the
Gorkhas’ long-standing demand for recognition and upliftment is fulfilled.
We will firmly engage with the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes and the
Ministry of Tribal Affairs to ensure a bill is passed in Parliament for the inclusion of 11
sub-groups of Gorkhas — Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar,
Thami, Yakka (Dewan), and Dhimal communities into the ST list.
Proactive measures for accelerated development of communities. TMC will
aggresively follow up with Government of India on our recommendation to grant ST
status to Mahato Community.
For India
The botched up Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) will be abolished, and the
National Register of Citizens (NRC) will be discontinued. TMC will fight vehemently
to protect every Indian citizen from BJP’s divide-&-rule policies.
We will introduce a bill in Parliament to seek the repeal of the CAA.
The Uniform Civil Code will not be implemented. TMC will firmly endeavour to
preserve the secular nature of India, as per the Constitution.
Multiple recommendations of the Sachar Committee will be implemented.
TMC will endeavour to improve the socioeconomic condition of India’s minority
communities.
Religious codes will be established for the Sari and Sarna tribal religions. TMC
will ensure these ancient faiths practised by indigenous and tribal communities are
officially acknowledged as distinct religious denominations.
To ensure that followers of these indigenous religions have a fundamental right
to practice their religious identity, we will engage with the MHA to secure separate
religious codes for Sari and Sarna.
TMC is committed to working with the Queer and Transgender communities in
India to find practical solutions to the challenges faced by them.
MANIFESTO 2024 74MANIFESTO 2024 75MANIFESTO 2024 7612
Banglai goreche aaj,
Surokhito notun somaj
Key Goals
The successful MAA Canteens programme
will continue to be expanded across Bengal
Salaries of mid-day-meal workers will be
increased
The existing Old Age Pension for India’s
elderly people above 60 years will be hiked
to ₹1,000 per month (₹12,000 annually)
Free ration will be delivered to the doorstep
of every ration card holder across India
MANIFESTO 2024 77
YTIRUCES
LAICOSWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Made lofty promises,
but ultimately left the poor and vulnerable abandoned
The BJP-led Union Government withheld ₹8,300 Crore for food subsidies owed to
Bengal. They insisted that PM Modi’s personal portrait had to display at ration shops
as a pre-condition to release funds to Bengal
The BJP-led Union Government has withheld ₹358 crore of dues for the NSAP and PM
Matru Vandana, depriving Bengal’s women and elderly of their rightful welfare benefits
The budget allocation for the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) has
plummeted from 0.5% in 2014-15 to a dismal 0.2% in 2024-25, with CAG exposing the
BJP Government’s misuse of NSAP funds for self-promotion
The BJP-led Union Government has downright neglected Bengal’s mid-day meal
workers — 3.8 Lakh helpers have not been paid wages for over 6 months now
The BJP-led Union Government has miserably failed to ensure food security for the
vulnerable sections, resulting in India’s rank of 111/125 countries in the Global
Hunger Index 2023
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The TMC
has endeavoured to ensure that Bengal’s vulnerable
remain secure and well supported
Under the Khadya Sathi scheme, food grains are being delivered to 9 Crore
beneficiaries at their doorsteps through the ‘Duare Ration’ initiative
1.5 Crore labourers from the unorganised sector have received social
security benefits under the Bina Mulya Samajik Suraksha Yojana
Monthly assistance of ₹1,000 (₹12,000 annually) has been provided to senior
citizens under the Old Age Pension Scheme, benefitting more than 19 Lakh
elderly individuals
The Manabik Pensions Scheme is benefitting over 7 lakh individuals with
disabilities of 40% or more
Since 2011, the TMC Government has been successful in elevating nearly 2
Crore people out of poverty in Bengal
Monthly financial assistance is provided to thousands of Purohits,
Imams and Muezzins across the state
MANIFESTO 2024 78What the TMC Government pledges to do: Ensure India’s poor
and vulnerable live a life with dignity
For Bengal
Salaries of Mid-day Meal Cook cum Helpers will be increased. TMC will ensure the
welfare of 2.3 Lakh Cook cum Helpers selflessly engaged in providing mid-day meals
to students across the state.
Remuneration of the Mid-day meal workers cum cooks will be increased from ₹1,000
to ₹1,500 with an additional ₹500 per month (additional ₹6,000 yearly) provided by the
state Government.
The successful MAA Canteens programme will continue to be expanded across
Bengal. TMC will continue to establish more MAA Canteens across the state to provide
nutritious meals to those in need, ensuring no one goes hungry and guaranteeing access
to good quality meals for all.
For India
Free ration will be delivered to the doorstep of every ration card holder. TMC will
continue to enhance food security for those who depend on the Government for
subsistence.
We will ensure that all eligible ration card holders can receive their monthly 5 KG grain
quota at their doorstep. By amending the National Food Security Act, we will reform
the Targeted Public Distribution System and ensure the necessary infrastructure all
across the country to enable this exercise.
Ration dealers without a delivery vehicle will be provided a subsidy of up to ₹1 Lakh
to purchase a vehicle. Robust mechanisms to check pilferage and prevent leakages in
delivery will also be developed.
The existing Old Age Pension for the elderly people above 60 years will be hiked
to ₹1,000 per month (₹12,000 annually). TMC will ensure social security and economic
support for the aged.
We will modify the existing amount of financial aid provided under the Indira Gandhi
National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS) to provide equitable financial assistance
to BPL beneficiaries.
The financial assistance will be enhanced to ₹1,000 per month (₹12,000 annually),
from earlier ₹200 per month (60-79 years) and ₹500 per month (above 80 years).
A comprehensive social security programme will be launched for gig workers.
TMC will protect the rights of workers in India’s rapidly growing gig economy.
We will introduce a new policy to provide dedicated measures to provide social security,
and credit access, and manage the rights of workers in India’s gig workforce.
The key components of this policy will be:
» A Gig Workers’ Welfare Board to register workers, facilitate the provision of
benefits, and mediate disputes between workers and platforms
» A comprehensive social security package including health insurance and accident
cover
» A Resiliency Corpus to support gig workers in case of emergencies, or during
periods of lean/irregular work
MANIFESTO 2024 79
YTIRUCES
LAICOSMANIFESTO 2024 8013
Sanskritir protipalon,
Oitijhyer songrokhon
Key Goals
Bengal’s rich cultural festivals and
activities will be provided greater
recognition, organized regularly, and
supported financially
A National Cultural Development Council
will be created
MANIFESTO 2024 81
ERUTLUCWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Time and again,
the BJP Government has denigrated Bengal’s revered cultural
legacy
The BJP-led Union Government has disrespected Kabiguru Rabindranath Thakur
several times by removing his name from textbooks and excluding his name from
the Visva Bharati plaque
Poush Mela, a revered Santiniketan tradition from over a century ago, employing
hundreds of artisans, was abruptly halted in 2019 by the Central University, affecting
people’s livelihoods in the locality
The BJP-led Union Government’s repeated rejection of Bengal’s tableaus for the
Republic Day since 2014 has demonstrated a clear political bias against the state and
its esteemed freedom fighters
From branding Swami Vivekananda as an “ignorant leftist” to vandalising a bust
of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and falsifying Kabiguru Rabindranath Thakur’s
history, Bangla Birodhi BJP has repeatedly insulted Bengal’s heritage
The BJP-led Union Government has been indifferent to the linguistic aspirations of
Bengal, Meghalaya, and other states — despite vocal demands for 38 languages
which still await addition to the 8th Schedule
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: TMC has
stood tall as the custodian of Bengal’s rich heritage
Durga Puja has been recognised as an ‘Intangible Cultural Heritage
of Humanity’ by UNESCO generating ₹72,000 Crore in revenues and
employing over 3 Lakh people
The ₹70,000 aid for Durga Puja clubs, along with benefits like electricity bill
rebates, tax exemptions on ads, and waived fire brigade charges, reflects
the Government’s commitment to support celebration of cultural festivals
Shantiniketan, founded by Kabiguru Rabindranath Thakur, has been
recognised as a ‘World Heritage Site’ by UNESCO
Santhali Academy has been established along with the publication of a
first-of-its-kind Santhali-English-Bengali trilingual dictionary to promote the
language
World-class Convention Centres have been set up in Kolkata and Digha
along with a world class exhibition ground, Mela Prangan. These centres
have become hubs for business, trade, tourism and MICE (Meetings,
Incentives, Conferences, and Exhibitions)
Recognizing the linguistic diversity of our state, Hindi, Nepali, Urdu, Odia,
Santhali, Rajbanshi, etc. have been recognised as second official languages
MANIFESTO 2024 82MANIFESTO 2024 83
ERUTLUC
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Foster and promote
India’s rich and diverse heritage
For Bengal
UNESCO World Heritage recognition will be sought for Bengal’s sites of cultural
importance. We will work towards securing UNESCO World Heritage status for sites
such as temples in Bishnupur, the Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong, and
more, by petitioning for their inclusion in the National Inventory, and following up
UNESCO to facilitate relevant filings.
Financial aid grants to clubs for Durga Puja programmes will be continued. TMC
will support clubs in celebrating Bengal’s cherished cultural festival Durga Puja.
We will continue to provide a comprehensive support package to Durga Puja clubs
across the state, including financial aid of ₹70,000, electricity bill rebates, exemptions
on advertisement taxes, and waiver on charges for fire brigade services.
Cultural festivals of Bengal will continue to be organised annually. We will
facilitate the annual organisation of festivals including Poush mela, Bangla Sangeet
Mela, Literature Festival etc and many more.
Furthermore, we will continue to support local artisans and preserve folk culture
by organising the ‘Biswa Bangla Lok Sanskriti Utsav’ and ‘Banglar Adivasi Hastashilpa
Exhibition’ annually.
Additionally, organisations like the Rajbanshi Bhasha Academy and Manbhum
Cultural Academy will be empowered to host community-specific events.
The Ganga Sagar Mela will be granted National Fair Status. We will petition for
the Ganga Sagar Mela, one of the biggest annual pilgrimages in India, to be upgraded
to a ”national fair”, thereby ensuring the continuity and quality of this grand tradition.
A Bangla Language Research and Promotion Centre will be established. TMC will
honour, preserve and promote the heritage of the Bangla language.
We will establish the Kabiguru Rabindranath Thakur Language Research and
Promotion Centre in the state, with eminent Bangla scholars and expert faculty,
to foster language preservation, nationwide (and global) promotion of Bangla and
community learning through rigorous academic research in literature, poetry, and
art forms.
For India
Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birthday will be declared a national holiday. TMC
will ensure administrative honour for the revered Bengali and national icon.
We will formulate a proposal to the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances, and
Pensions to get 23rd January — the esteemed birthday of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose
classified as a national holiday across all states and union territories by getting it
added to the Official Gazette of India.A National Cultural Development Council will be created. To recognize and
stimulate local culture and traditions, a special council will be constituted, which will
work in conjunction with all states.
The Council will also prioritise the welfare of those engaged in these vocations. As
successfully implemented in Bengal, rural artists, folk performers, etc. will be provided
social security. Regional theatre, music, and rituals will be revived.
Recognition of Khasi and Garo Languages. TMC is committed to upholding the
linguistic needs of its sister states in the North East.
By introducing a bill seeking their inclusion in the 8th Schedule of the Constitution,
we will ensure these 2 languages from Meghalaya are duly recognized, adequately
funded, and properly promoted.
MANIFESTO 2024 84MANIFESTO 2024 85MANIFESTO 2024 8614
Sanskriti-oitijyo-porjoton,
Sobar sera bangla ekhon
Key Goals
Bengal’s tourism infrastructure will be
enhanced through PPP ventures
Greater efforts will be made to tap the full
potential of the tourism sector in India
MANIFESTO 2024 87
MSIRUOTWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Failed to effectively
develop a sector that had significant potential to bolster India’s
economy
Swadesh Darshan scheme has been an ineffective eyewash — the Union
Government has failed to create detailed plans for 14 out of 15 circuits intended for
development
The BJP-led Union Government has neglected the development of rural tourism
circuits, allocating a mere 0.7% of the total expenditure of ₹4,225 Crore under the
Swadesh Darshan scheme
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: The TMC
Government has steadfastly promoted and developed
the tourism industry
Bengal ranks 3rd in India for foreign tourist visits and 8th for domestic
tourist visits, welcoming 8 Crore tourist visitors in 2022
The Kiriteswari village in Murshidabad was awarded the best tourism
village in India in 2023 by the Ministry of Tourism
Bengal’s Homestay Tourism Policy incentivises homestay owners with ₹1
Lakh, and has benefitted 2,340 registered homestays, creating 18,720
jobs in the process
Granted industry status to the hospitality sector to extend tax benefits,
reduced tariffs, etc., attracting more investments and creating new jobs in
the state
What the TMC Government pledges to do: Ensure Tourism plays
a key role in economic growth, job creation and enhancing
national pride
For Bengal
A Digital Single Window Clearance System will be created for tourism businesses.
Operations of concerned authorities and nodal agencies will be streamlined to provide
efficient approvals and clearances. A digital single window clearance mechanism will
be set up to enable filing and approval of all necessary permits 100% online, allowing
new businesses to start operating within 21 days.
MANIFESTO 2024 88Bengal’s tourism infrastructure will be enhanced through PPP ventures. TMC
will promote the creation of high-end tourism infrastructure such as hotels, resorts,
adventure activities, and cruises.
Through a PPP approach, we will advance the development and upgradation of
infrastructure related to waterside tourism, including marinas, jetties, cruises, boating
facilities, and waterfront promenades.
Infrastructure will also be created to tap adventure sports opportunities such as
parasailing, skiing, etc. through strategic PPP investment.
Employment opportunities for locals will be prioritised in all ventures initiated in the
state.
District-level circuits will be developed to promote religious tourism. TMC will
promote religious tourism in Bengal by establishing district-level religious circuits,
connecting over 400 significant religious sites for the benefit of devotees.
We will develop these circuits with robust infrastructure such as roads,
accommodations, and amenities to facilitate comfortable pilgrimages.
A modern quality accreditation framework will be established for Bengal’s
hospitality industry. To elevate tourism, TMC will strengthen the quality of hospitality
offerings in Bengal.
We will improve and standardise the range of hospitality services in Bengals’ tourism
industry by devising a quality certification programme based on international
standards, with 3 key components:
» A tiered certification system (bronze, silver, gold, platinum level) for recognition of
and tailored improvement plans for various service providers
» Training programmes for service providers to enhance the quality of their services
» System of regular audits to guarantee compliance with established standards
A monthly honorarium of ₹2,500 (₹30,000 annually) will be given to tourist guides.
We will provide a monthly honorarium of ₹2,500 (₹30,000 annually) to all New Tourist
Guides and Veteran Tourist Guides who have completed training and certification
under the State Government’s Tourist Guides Certification Scheme.
Homestay establishments will be promoted to boost tourism opportunities in
the state. TMC will facilitate the development of homestays to promote tourism and
entrepreneurship.
We will update the West Bengal Homestay Tourism Policy 2022 to reduce the period
within which the registration certificate is issued to homestay owners and extend the
validity period of their registration.
We will promote the establishment of homestays through the effective implementation
of the policy, by extending the ₹1 Lakh incentive to more homestay owners. It will
foster the growth of tourism startup businesses and generate more employment
opportunities.
MANIFESTO 2024 89
MSIRUOTFor India
Greater efforts will be made to tap the full potential of the tourism sector in
India. We will promote India’s tourism with a holistic approach, with a goal of doubling
both foreign as well as domestic visitor inflows.
We will position India as the ultimate tourist gem of the world by transforming it into
the premier tourist destination for travellers worldwide, illuminating the breadth and
depth of our country’s offerings, from its stunning geographical landscapes to its
awe-inspiring historical monuments and vibrant cultural tapestry.
A concerted effort will be undertaken to not only develop a compelling array of
offerings but also to maximise employment generation and the economic output
from tourism offerings to ensure that India’s tourism economy itself is self-sustaining.
The measures that will be taken include the following:
» Development of state-of-the-art tourism infrastructure, such as hotels, resorts,
beachfront eco-retreats, etc. in PPP
» Establishment and enhancement of various tourist circuits such as religious
circuits, eco-circuits, coastal circuits, etc.
» Creation of a dedicated fund for the modernization and maintenance of cultural
and heritage sites
» Recognition of villages across the country and develop them into tourist villages
to offer visitors an authentic and immersive experience of rural life and traditions
and promote rural tourism
» Offering special tourist packages to international tourists during the festive
season to provide them with unique opportunities to explore India’s vibrant
cultural celebrations
» Promoting the development of nightlife zones, as well as the development of
cultural markets featuring various indigenous arts, crafts, textiles, etc., at tourism
hotspots across the country
» Promoting India’s tourist destinations globally to attract a large number of
international tourists
MANIFESTO 2024 90MANIFESTO 2024 91MANIFESTO 2024 9215
Jib boichitro sonrokhito,
Poribesh surakhito
Key Goals
Bengal’s forest cover will be gradually
increased, with emphasis on wetland and
mangrove conservation
Various national legislations that safeguard
India’s critical natural resources will be
strengthened
MANIFESTO 2024 93
YTISREVIDOIB
DNA
TNEMNORIVNEWhat the BJP-led Union Government did: Time and again,
our environment has been sacrificed at the altar of rampant
commercialisation
The BJP-led Union Government mercilessly withheld ₹43,508 Crore of funds
earmarked for cyclone relief in Bengal, depriving the state of its rightful dues
The BJP-led Union Government has slashed Wildlife Habitat funding by a
staggering 47% in just 3 years (2018-2021), undermining its own much-publicized
wildlife conservation promises
The BJP-led Union Government’s mismanagement of the National Clean Air Programme
has resulted in 30/131 cities being deprived of real-time air quality monitoring,
hurting India’s efforts to combat air pollution
The Union Government’s Namami Gange Programme has failed miserably — 71%
of testing stations along the sacred Ganga river continue to reveal dangerous levels
of contamination
The recent cheetah deaths in Kuno National Park have exposed the Union
Government’s wildlife conservation failures with inadequate habitat preparation and
poor management
Rampant commercialisation and utter display of insensitivity towards the ecological
ecosystem in the hilly regions of BJP-ruled states such as Uttarakhand and Arunachal
Pradesh led to flash floods and landslides, leading to many people losing their lives,
destroying places of worship and displacing millions
What the Maa-Mati-Manush Government did: TMC has
demonstrated keen environmental sensitivity, balancing
development with sustainability
A significant budget of ₹1,119.6 Crore has been allocated to Environment
and Forest for the year 2024-25
Through programmes like ‘Ban Mahotsav’ and ‘Sabujshree’ have planted
90.6 Lakh seedlings and afforested 6,618 hectares of land in the state
Conservation efforts in the Jaldapara and Gorumara National Parks have
led to a 20% increase in the state’s endangered Rhinoceros population
Bengal now leads the nation with the highest number of Biodiversity
Heritage Sites (10)
The Government has established 3 ‘Saal Leaf’ manufacturing units, 5
Biodiversity parks, 4 Butterfly Gardens, and 4 ‘Avoy Pukur’
The Sundarbans have been declared as a Wetland of International
Importance under the Ramsar Convention in January 2019
MANIFESTO 2024 94What the TMC Government pledges to do: Ensure climate
conservation as a governance priority, enhancing sustainability
and facilitating greater biodiversity
For Bengal
Degraded wetlands will be gradually rehabilitated. TMC will initiate measures to
rehabilitate degraded wetlands by 2032, engaging local communities in the process.
Healthy wetland ecosystems will result in an increase in carbon stock for the state
and fulfil the state’s share of Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
A Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) approach will
be integrated into Bengal’s environmental governance. TMC will ensure that
tribal communities and/or their representatives are more strongly integrated into
consultations for projects that irreversibly affect their existing habitat or consumable
resources and are given incremental rights to administer forest stretches and
resources in order to safeguard ecological diversity, protect lands, and uphold
ancestral customs.
Bengal’s proportion of forest cover will be gradually increased. TMC will ensure
the expansion of Bengal’s land under forestation (approximately 19%) of the
geographical area presently, with the objective of attaining increased forest cover
in the state. We will further increase the green cover through the regeneration of
degraded forests in the urban and peri-urban areas.
The declining mangrove forests in the Sundarbans will be gradually restored.
TMC will restore and preserve the vital ecosystem of Sundarbans.
We will intensify mangrove plantation drives to replant mangrove trees in degraded
areas and afforestation drives in suitable areas where mangroves have not previously
existed to increase the coverage of mangroves in the region.
We will deploy modern technology to identify degraded areas suitable for plantation,
monitor growth and survival rates of newly planted mangroves, and further ensure
that adaptive management practices can be applied in response to ongoing
monitoring data.
Measures will be implemented to protect the banks of various rivers in Bengal
from erosion. TMC will implement strategies to protect the rivers of Bengal, including
all the vulnerable riverbanks of the state, from erosion and to safeguard communities
from floods.
We will undertake erosion control measures such as planting willows and deep-
rooting vegetation to stabilise riverbanks and mitigate erosion.
MANIFESTO 2024 95
YTISREVIDOIB
DNA
TNEMNORIVNEFor India
Amendments to the Forest Conservation Act will be revisited. TMC will preserve
the sanctity of land recorded as ‘forest’ as per the Indian Forest Act (1927).
We will ensure that there is no irresponsible transfer of any forest land to non-forest
uses, such as building roadside amenities, safaris, and eco-tourism activities.
The National Clean Air Programme will be strengthened. TMC will implement
better strategies to curb the persistent damaging effects of air pollution.
We will increase the number and coverage of air quality monitoring stations across
the country to capture more accurate and comprehensive data, review and update
emission standards for industries and power plants, and develop modern sector-
specific strategies for transportation, industry, agriculture (stubble burning), and
construction to tackle the most prominent industrial sources of air pollution. We will
also aggressively increase the adoption of LPG as a cooking fuel across all households
in the nation to ensure a positive impact on the environment. LPG as a cooking fuel
produces fewer greenhouse gas emissions compared to traditional solid fuels like
wood or charcoal.
A comprehensive review of legislation pertaining to mining will be undertaken.
With a view to strengthening environmental safety standards and also enhancing
labour safety standards, we will conduct a thorough scrutiny of India’s ageing
legislation on mining.
The provisions of the Mines Act (1952), the Mines and Minerals Act (1957), and the
Environment Protection Act (1986) will be reexamined and modernised to evolve
state-of-the-art approaches for sustainable use of minerals, ecological damage
mitigation strategies, and safety of mining workers.
MANIFESTO 2024 96MANIFESTO 2024 97Thank You
Our commitment to fulfil our promises has never wavered, and the past
decade stands testament to the holistic development Bengal has witnessed
across all sectors. Through relentless efforts, we have built a prosperous
and inclusive Bengal where all communities coexist in harmony, where
children have equal access to education, where rights are recognised and
welfare reaches all. To this end, we seek your unwavering support.
Bengal’s rich heritage, resilient history of struggle, and glorious
achievements are our collective pride and must be protected at all costs. In
the last 10 years, oppressive forces from outside, disdainful of our culture
and history, have tried to constantly deceive, divide, and deprive our state,
making their anti-Bengal credentials abundantly clear at every stage.
The people of Bengal have always been at the forefront of change and resistance,
standing up against all forms of divisiveness, propaganda, and misuse of power.
It is time for all of us to rise as one against these Bangla birodhis.
Your trust, support and thunderous roar are instrumental in strengthening
Trinamool Congress’ fight, sweeping these jomidars out from Bengal and
India. To this end, we appeal to you to cast your valuable vote on the
joraphool symbol and support All India Trinamool Congress’ candidates in
the 18th Lok Sabha Elections.
Together, let’s secure the rights of our Maa, Mati, Manush, continuing and
enhancing an era of progress and prosperity for all.
Joy Hind! Joy Bangla!
Presented by
All India Trinamool Congress
MANIFESTO 2024 98MANIFESTO 2024 99MANIFESTO 2024 101ALL INDIA TRINAMOOl CONGRESSProtect Bengal’s heritage and pride
Cast your vote for TMC symbol
ALL INDIA TRINAMOOL CONGRESS
Published by Abhishek Banerjee, National General Secretary All India Trinamool Congress
and Subrata Bakshi, President West Bengal Trinamool Congress and
printed by ADO Print, Kolkata - 700135
MANIFESTO 2024 104